 IN THE SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -XBILL LOCKYER, ATTORNEY GENERAL :OF CALIFORNIA, Petitioner ::v. : No. -LEANDRO ANDRADE :- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -XWashington, D.C.Tuesday, November , The above-entitled matter came on for oralargument before the Supreme Court of the United States at: a.m.APPEARANCES:DOUGLAS P. DANZIG, ESQ., Deputy Attorney General, San Diego, California; on behalf of the Petitioner.ERWIN CHEMERINSKY, ESQ., Los Angeles, California; onbehalf of the Respondent. C O N T E N T SORAL ARGUMENT OF DOUGLAS P. DANZIG, ESQ.On behalf of the Petitioner ORAL ARGUMENT OFERWIN CHEMERINSKY, ESQ.On behalf of the Respondent REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OFDOUGLAS P. DANZIG, ESQ.On behalf of the Petitioner PAGE P R O C E E D I N G S(: a.m.)CHIEF JUSTICE REHNQUIST: We'll hear argumentnext in Number -, Bill Lockyer v. Leandro Andrade.Mr. Danzig.ORAL ARGUMENT OF DOUGLAS P. DANZIGON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONERMR. DANZIG: Mr. Chief Justice, and may itplease the Court:The Ninth Circuit's grant of habeas relief inthis case should be reversed for two reasons. First, thecourt erred in setting aside the State court judgmentbecause it did not properly apply the principles of habeascorpus review to cases that are considered under theAEDPA. As confirmed in two concurring opinions issued by this Court yesterday, Early v. Hill and Woodford v.Visciotti, this case is resolvable on AEDPA grounds andtherefore the Court need not address the constitutionalissues in this case.In any event, independent of the habeas corpusaspects of this case, the sentence in this case is notgrossly disproportionate and therefore does not violatethis -- the Eighth Amendment.Pursuant to U.S.C. (d), a Federal courtmay not grant habeas relief unless the State court determination on the merits was either contrary to, orinvolved an unreasonable application of this Court's clearcontrolling precedent. In this case, the Ninth Circuitheld that the State court determination involved anunreasonable application. Despite the Ninth --QUESTION: Is this the case in which the NinthCircuit first decided for itself the constitutionalquestion, and then decided whether the State court hadreasonably applied it?MR. DANZIG: Yes, that is correct, Your Honor.Despite the Ninth Circuit's holding in thiscase, a careful analysis of the Ninth Circuit's opinionhere reveals that although they reversed, or grantedhabeas relief, reversing the district court onunreasonable application grounds, the fact of the matter is this, all of the reasoning lends itself to a contrary-to analysis rather than an unreasonable application, andopposing, or the respondent has, in fact briefed thecontrary-to prong of the as well as the unreasonableapplication prong.For example, the -- and for the most part thecircuit court held that holding was based on theconclusion that the State court merits determination erredbecause it did not consider the three-case triumvirate ofRummel, Solem, and Harmelin, and faulted the State court for failing to apply, or essentially disregarding Solem,but as Early v. Packer made clear yesterday, on -- when weare talking about a contrary-to application, it's notnecessary for the State court to have cited this Court'scontrolling authority, and it's not even necessary for theCourt to be aware of it, and in fact the State court inthis case cited, or provided what we call a Lynch analysisunder California law, which incorporated virtually everyaspect of the Solem analysis that the State court said --pardon me, that the Ninth Circuit said the State courtdisregarded.So on that basis alone, and I think Earlymakes -- the per curiam opinion in Early makes clear thatthat's okay if you have an application of State law, oryou rely on State law that provides even greater depth of analysis than the Federal rule would require, and that'swhat happened here. The Lynch analysis requires whatwould be comparable to the second and third prongs underthe Solem analysis, which, following Harmelin, are deemedno longer required unless -- and serve only to validate aninitial inference on the first prong, so this was clearlynot a contrary-to case. The court -- the State court --QUESTION: May I just ask on that point, do youthink there was not even the need to look at the second orthird elements of the test because there is not even a basis for saying this sentence was grosslydisproportionate?MR. DANZIG: Yes, Justice Stevens, I agree withthat. I think that there is no inference --QUESTION: In other words, the case could bedecided on the ground that there's -- an inference ofgross disproportionality should not be drawn in this case?MR. DANZIG: That's correct, Your Honor, I doagree with that, and on the Eighth Amendment, the pureEighth Amendment question, that there was no inference ofgross disproportionality here, and therefore the secondand third prongs were not required, but the State courtdid, in fact, apply a second and third prong analysis, andthat leads into the only portion of the Ninth Circuit'sopinion that really addresses the reasonableness of the State court's decision.The Ninth Circuit disposed of the unreasonableapplication analysis in a footnote, and it basically saidthat the State court's reliance on State law is irrelevantbecause it didn't cite Federal law, and I think that thedecision yesterday in Early v. Hill kind of renders thatparticular portion of the analysis --QUESTION: Would you just refresh myrecollection on the facts of this case, because the priorargument, the argument was made that violence was the critical matter in the prior conviction. Were thereviolence in the earlier, in the priors in this case?MR. DANZIG: The record does not indicatewhether there were or not, Your Honor. The priors thatwere the predicate for the three strikes sentence wereboth residential burglaries, and there -- we have no factsconcerning them in the record, but the gravamen, as we allknow, of a residential burglary is the potential fordanger and violence that comes from invading someone'shome, and also subsequent to this case being decided quiterecently, the California legislature amended its statuteand now includes a residential burglary where the house isoccupied in its articulation of violent felonies. It's nolonger just confined to the serious felony --QUESTION: Do you agree with your colleague in the prior case that violence is a critical element in thepriors or not?MR. DANZIG: No, I do not, Your Honor.QUESTION: Okay.MR. DANZIG: Not to be overly inconsistentbetween our mutual arguments, but I think this Court hasheld that the presence or absence of violence does notnecessarily dictate the proportionality analysis. Theremay be circumstances where a crime is of sufficientgravity that doesn't involve violence, such that extremely long sentences are appropriate.QUESTION: I agree on the merits that we can'tconvert this Court into a sentencing commission, but it'salso true, I guess, that there must be some way ofdeciding when a State has gone too far, and I don't knowany way that's other than highly subjective, except tolook at data that would show what happened in the past,but if you take that, how do you give the State the rightto become harsher in the future?Now, you're going to say, well, it has thatright, and of course it does to a degree, but is there away to say that it has to meet some burden, or that it hasto show something if it's going to change dramaticallywhat was the consensus in the past --MR. DANZIG: I don't think that --QUESTION: -- in a harsh direction?MR. DANZIG: I don't think that the fact thatit's going to change dramatically is determinative ordispositive, but I do think, Justice Breyer, that thereare a couple of responses to that question.First of all, turning back to one of thequestions Justice Souter asked in the prior argument, Ibelieve that when the State is going to define certainfelonies as being sufficiently serious to trigger theimposition of the three strikes, or three strikes approach or harsher sentencing, I think a rational basis -- thecourts may be required to engage in a heightened scrutinyanalysis to determine whether there's a rational basis forthat in the first place.But I think that's distinct from anyproportionality analysis, and the problem with thehypothetical that you pose is that, while you are correctthat there is a subjective prong to this, the question is,where does that subjectivity belong? Is it within theparticular personal subjective views of the reviewingcourt, or is it within the confines of the subjectiveviews as reflect -- that the legislature represents of thesubjective views of the citizenry?QUESTION: It has to be the latter, but stillthere has to be a way of deciding when they go too far. MR. DANZIG: In other words --QUESTION: And that's what I'm looking for, andI look to -- you know, what I've said before as a way ofisolating the problem, and then -- and I think here youmight say that on the merits of your case, it'll -- you'dbe hard-pressed to find many examples outside of the threestrikes laws where there were such sentences given forsuch things.MR. DANZIG: I --QUESTION: I think so. I mean, there are a handful in the SG's brief, that's true.MR. DANZIG: I understand your question, JusticeBreyer, to basically go to what is grosslydisproportionate.QUESTION: That's right.MR. DANZIG: And the Court, this Court has notdefined that term, or given us any clear guidelines, butwe do know that by the very nature, grosslydisproportionate implies an extreme situation, and --QUESTION: Suppose we were to find -- andthere's argument in this about the briefs both ways, butsuppose we were to conclude that this has likely been amost effective scheme, that it's reduced the crime rate inthe State of California. The prisoners talk about it allthe time. They know what three strikes means. It's asimple thing that they can understand, and that it works.If we made that finding, and there -- youradversaries will disagree that that's true, but if we madethat finding, does that bear on whether the sentence isdisproportionate?MR. DANZIG: Not really, because I suppose -- Imean, in an extreme example, Justice Kennedy, we couldlock up everybody for extremely long periods of time, andit could still go past that point of proportion, of grossdisproportionality. I think there has to be a more clear definition than simply the impact of the sentencingstatute, and --QUESTION: Well, what's your limiting principlehere?MR. DANZIG: The limiting --QUESTION: Is there one?MR. DANZIG: The limiting principle we offer is,or we urge upon the Court is the one that's been mentionedin a -- or has been used as related to an examplementioned in a couple of the Court's opinions, when theyrefer to lifetime for parking, and the reasonable mean --understanding of that example is often cited as a lifesentence for a first-time parking --QUESTION: But that --QUESTION: Excuse me, what is your limiting principle? I haven't heard it.MR. DANZIG: The limiting principle would bethat those are, that sentences are grosslydisproportionate when they are not reasonably susceptibleto debate amongst reasonable minds.QUESTION: But --QUESTION: You seem to be --QUESTION: -- in this particular case it's years for stealing some tapes, right?MR. DANZIG: No, Your Honor, I -- Justice Stevens, I disagree with that. It is not a -yearsentence for stealing tapes, it is two -years-to-lifesentences.QUESTION: But they're consecutive.MR. DANZIG: They are consecutive.QUESTION: Well, why isn't that ?(Laughter.)MR. DANZIG: Because I think it's important tobear in mind two things in reaching that conclusion. First of all, they represent independent episodes ofcriminal behavior. They are not connected. They may havethe impact of resulting in a -year sentence, but it --but they do reflect the fact that the -- Mr. Andrade inthis case demonstrated beyond any question that he is ahabitual offender. He was arrested and either cited and released, or booked and released and weeks later he wentright back out and did the same thing.Not only that, he told the probation officerthat he stole the tapes in order to sell them to buyheroin, not as gifts for his children, but to buy heroinwith. He also indicated he was a hopeless heroin addict,and that he always does something stupid when releasedfrom prison, and I think the reasonable inference of whathe meant was, he always goes out and recommits crimes, soI think that's part of why it's not a -year -- QUESTION: Well, is he being punished becausehe's a heroin addict or because he stole these tapes?MR. DANZIG: He's being punished because of his,of a combination of his record of recidivism and his -- orhis habitual criminal behavior.The other reason I think it's important to makethe distinction between the two -to-life sentencesversus characterizing it as -to-life for receiving, orfor stealing some tapes is because of the ameliorativeeffects of the California sentencing structure.QUESTION: But in light of the answer that yougave to my question, and then to Justice O'Connor's aboutwhat is the standard, I'm now at somewhat a loss as to howto defend your statute under the incapacitation anddeterrence theory. That doesn't bear on proportionality? That's quite a surprising answer to me. I thought thewhole point of this statute was that we wanted somethingthat works.MR. DANZIG: And I agree, Your Honor, and if Imisstated that, I did not mean to. I think that the --QUESTION: Then proportionality has to be judgedagainst the legislative objective, I should think.MR. DANZIG: Absolutely, Justice Kennedy.QUESTION: Well, then, then the question that Iput to you does bear on proportionality. The premise I put to you does bear on proportionality, that we need asystem that's simple but works, that reduces crime in theState, and you told me, oh, well, that means we could lockup everything, everybody so you can't use that.MR. DANZIG: No, I did not mean --QUESTION: But we don't lock up everybody. That's not the three strikes statute.MR. DANZIG: I did not mean to imply that itdoesn't bear on proportionality, I certainly believe thatit does. I simply said that standing alone, without anyfurther consideration, that would also justify an extremeexample, but yes, I do believe that it does bear onproportionality in light of the legislative purpose of thestatute, but in measuring that legislative purpose, I dobelieve that what's reasonable -- sentences, evaluating sentences on whether they are reasonably susceptible todebate also provides a framework or a lens with which tolook, to apply that analysis.QUESTION: Mr. Danzig --QUESTION: Okay, but if we do that --QUESTION: -- if we can just back up, I thinkyou started out by urging that we not do what the NinthCircuit did in terms of the order. It first made a rulingthat there was a violation of the Eighth Amendment, andthen it determined whether we had clearly established law. MR. DANZIG: That's correct.QUESTION: You are urging that we not reach anyultimate decision on the Eighth Amendment question, butsimply decide that however you come out on that, the --there was no violation of clearly established Federal law.MR. DANZIG: Not exactly, Justice Ginsburg. Weare saying that the case is disposable on AEDPA grounds,but if the Court found that the State court meritsdetermination was unreasonable, it necessarily would haveto turn to the Eighth Amendment issue.QUESTION: Yes, but which -- the Ninth Circuitsaid it's appropriate in these cases to decide the EighthAmendment question first. What is your view on that? Should we follow in line with what the Ninth Circuit did,or should we say the proper thing to do is to find out whether it's an unreasonable interpretation of clearlyestablished Federal law, and if it isn't, that's the endof it?MR. DANZIG: The latter, Justice Ginsburg. Themethodology that the Ninth Circuit has developed asarticulated in Van Tran is inconsistent with the veryspirit of the AEDPA.QUESTION: Well, it's also inconsistent with ouridea that we try to avoid constitutional questions if wecan, isn't it? MR. DANZIG: Yes, it is, Your Honor.QUESTION: But you said earlier that you thoughtthe proper analysis was contrary to, rather thanunreasonable application, and how can you decide whethersomething's contrary to a rule unless you know what therule is?MR. DANZIG: I would like to clarify that,Justice Stevens. I didn't say that the proper analysis inthis case was contrary to. I said that the Ninth Circuitpurported to reach an unreasonable application prong, butwhen you look at their reasoning, it actually is acontrary-to argument that they made, and I meant to saythat when -- if -- to the extent that it is a contrary-todecision that they made, no matter the fact that theyultimately labeled it unreasonable application, this Court's per curiam decision yesterday in Early v. Packerhas essentially resolved that question, because of whatthey base their decision on.QUESTION: I'm not sure you've answered myquestion. It seems to me that we have to decide whetheror not -- regardless of what the Ninth Circuit did, Ithink one of the things we have to decide is whether ornot the sentence in this case is contrary to a Federalrule, and I don't know how we can decide that withoutknowing what the Federal rule is, and I was asking for your advice on that point.MR. DANZIG: The Federal rule I think isarticulated in Harmelin, and that is that grosslydisproportionate sentences violate the Eighth Amendment.QUESTION: But we have to identify that as theFederal rule before we go on to decide whether it'scontrary to, I think. Is that -- would you agree withthat?MR. DANZIG: Yes. You're -- I would.QUESTION: That seems just the opposite of whatyou responded to me earlier, that we don't have to decidethe Eighth Amendment question, that we can just decidewhatever the answer to that is, this was not off thechart.MR. DANZIG: I don't think that we have to --that it's necessary to resolve the Eighth Amendmentquestion, but it may be necessary to know what the rule isbefore we know whether the State court selectedthe right rule or not --QUESTION: But if we know what the rule is --QUESTION: Well, precisely we have to askwhether there is a Federal rule. We don't have to knowwhat it is. The question is, is there a clearlypronounced Federal rule.MR. DANZIG: Correct. QUESTION: And the answer to that may well beno.MR. DANZIG: In many circumstances it may be.QUESTION: In which case we have no occasion topronounce on what the Federal rule is.MR. DANZIG: Correct.QUESTION: All we have to say is that there isno clearly enunciated Federal rule here.QUESTION: Can I go back for a second to themerits of this?MR. DANZIG: Yes.QUESTION: Because I -- we all have -- myproblem that I'm struggling with is, is there an objectivestandard. You're absolutely right about what the problemis I'm having, and I tend to -- do look to this empirical stuff as a way of finding an objective standard, and ifhere the empirical part suggests this is way out of line,I'm now faced with the question, well, can't the Statemake a harsher system if it has a reason for doing it, andI think the answer to that question must be yes.But then -- then I'd ask, very well, doesn't theState have to come up with some reason that's persuasivein this case that it makes a difference to extend thethree-strike thing with this kind of thing in mind, thiskind of case in mind, to the wobblers? I mean, is there some punitive purpose in termsof incapacitation that's gained, of a significant kind, byincreasing the wobbler sentences by factors of, you know,multiples of four or five or or something, over whatthey would have been before when committed by seriouscriminals, and I guess the answer to that is, there's noindication, or is there?MR. DANZIG: The -- I think you can't -- thatbegs the question. It cannot disassociate the wobbleroffense that's at issue in this particular case from therecidivism.QUESTION: No, no, I'm not. I'm onlyconsidering the class of recidivists, and I'm saying --let's call them recidivist plus wobbler, all right. Thatgroup of people, recidivist plus wobbler, is getting an enormous increase in sentence over what was or is anyother place, on average, and therefore I think, gee, maybethis is really grossly disproportionate.MR. DANZIG: But it's a certain class ofrecidivists. It's not just recidivists in general. It isthat class --QUESTION: No, that's right.MR. DANZIG: -- that's already demonstrated thatthey are willing to commit the most serious and violent --QUESTION: That's right. MR. DANZIG: -- potentially violent types ofcrimes, and has now indicated that they are also unwillingto remain law-abiding, and there comes a point at whichthe State has a right to say, enough is enough.QUESTION: So jay-walking?MR. DANZIG: Well, I think that would probablyreturn to the rational basis, the -- analysis.QUESTION: Fine. If jay-walking's not there,and this is, the wobblers, why can the wobblers be there,but not the jay-walkers? That's what I'm -- that's whatI'm thinking about here.MR. DANZIG: There is a distinction between thewobblers and the jay-walking. There's the obviousdistinction that there's a longstanding historicaltradition between felonies and misdemeanors and infractions. The infractions, the jay-walking doesn'teven present, for the most part, a property or personalsafety issue.QUESTION: Well, does California fine people forjay-walking?MR. DANZIG: There is, I believe, a code on thebooks that makes it an offense, or an infraction.QUESTION: Is it enforced at all?MR. DANZIG: I do not know the answer to that,Your Honor. QUESTION: Mr. Danzig --QUESTION: I don't understand why a parkingoffense wouldn't qualify if a man is on parole, and anybreach of parole is always emphasized as beingparticularly bad, and one of the things he can't do isengage in parking in no-parking zones, and if he did thatin breach of a parole, and he had nine prior cases, Idon't know why you couldn't impose your three-strikepenalty on the overtime parker.MR. DANZIG: The -- if the Californialegislature chose --QUESTION: It says, any violation -- it put itin as a wobbler, any violation of a parole condition by aperson who's on parole.MR. DANZIG: That is not a wobbler offense. It's a parole revocation issue.QUESTION: It would not, because the other, inthe other case they emphasized the fact he'd been onparole a number of times, what -- his violations wereparole violations. Is the fact that whether or not it's aparole violation relevant to our inquiry at all?MR. DANZIG: It is in the sense that the Courthas held that when doing a proportionality analysis, hisentire criminal picture can be taken into consideration. We're not -- the Court is not required to confine the analysis only to the predicate and triggering offenses, soin that sense it does -- it is an indication of continuedhabitual criminality and an unwillingness to remainlaw-abiding.QUESTION: I think you're saying --QUESTION: Mr. Danzig, there is somethingmissing in this case that was present in the other. Thatis, the judge in the -- Mr. Ewing's case was asked toreduce the wobbler to a misdemeanor, was asked to strike astrike and she said no, it's not within the spirit of thethree-strikes law.Here, the California Court of Appeals seemedalmost nonplussed that there had not been such requeststimely made to the trial judge, and twice the court ofappeal said it would still be open to Mr. Andrade to pursue on State habeas both pleas, that is, the wobblershould be reduced to a misdemeanor, a strike should beout. Do you agree that that avenue of relief is open toMr. Andrade?MR. DANZIG: Yes, but it requires anexplanation, Your Honor. He -- Mr. Andrade did, in fact,ask the court for misdemeanor treatment under CaliforniaPenal Code section (b).QUESTION: He didn't repeat it at the time ofsentencing. MR. DANZIG: No, he did not, Your Honor, butthere is an odd chronological history here that's just --that distinguishes this case.The California Court of Appeal, or -- pardon me. The judgment came down in this case a few weeks before theCalifornia Supreme Court issued its decision in Romerogranting trial courts the discretion to dismiss priors, soin the California Court of Appeals decision, they notedthat that Romero decision had said that if you got arecord that you can't determine whether the sentencingjudge knew whether he had or not -- he or she haddiscretion to dismiss the strikes, then the proper basisfor addressing that is through State habeas.Mr. Andrade then filed a petition for review tothe California supreme court which was denied, and without prejudice to file a State habeas corpus petition based onRomero, which he did. He went back to State court, fileda habeas corpus petition -- pardon me. He did not file aState habeas corpus petition -- pardon me. He did file aState habeas corpus petition which was entertained by thesame sentencing court that had sentenced him, and thatcourt said that it did not find that he was appropriatecandidate for dismissing the strikes.Curiously, though, that court also noted that ifit felt that it read the law as having discretion to impose concurrent rather than consecutive sentences, itmight consider it. That wasn't an issue at the time. Itwas just kind of dicta within the court's, the sentencingcourt's decision.Ultimately, though, about a year later, theCalifornia supreme court issued another case called Peoplev. Garcia in which the supreme court said that sentencingcourts have a right to dismiss strikes on a count-by-count basis, and Mr. Andrade has never asked by anyvehicle for a reconsideration of that issue, so in theoryhe could go back at this point and file another Statehabeas corpus petition and ask for what we would callGarcia consideration, and -- which, based on what thecourt, the sentencing court had previously indicated, thecourt might be inclined to grant him, which would reduce this sentence if, assuming it was applied to one of thecounts, to a -year-to-life sentence. QUESTION: Would you object to that relief?MR. DANZIG: We would not concede the issue,but -- and I'm not saying that we would necessarily opposeit, but it is available to him. We'd have to consider ourposition on that if and when it was -- he made thatapplication.QUESTION: Do you wish to reserve some time?MR. DANZIG: Yes, I do, Your Honor. QUESTION: Very well. Thank you, Mr. Danzig.MR. DANZIG: Thank you.QUESTION: Mr. Chemerinsky, we'll hear from you.ORAL ARGUMENT OF ERWIN CHEMERINSKYON BEHALF OF THE RESPONDENTMR. CHEMERINSKY: Mr. Chief Justice, and may itplease the Court:Today, the State of California asks this Courtto disregard and essentially to overrule a century ofdecisions that have held that grossly disproportionatepenalties violate the Eighth Amendment. If any sentenceis grossly disproportionate, it's that which was imposedon Leandro Andrade.QUESTION: A century of decisions? I thought wedecided this since I've been on the Court. I've been here longer than I thought, I guess.(Laughter.)MR. CHEMERINSKY: I'm sorry, Justice Scalia, Ididn't hear the question.QUESTION: You say there -- for a century wehave been engaged in proportionality analysis?MR. CHEMERINSKY: Yes, Your Honor. In Weems v.United States in , this Court said that sentences mustbe graduated in proportion to the offense. Most recently,in Harmelin v. Michigan, seven Justices -- and Justice Kennedy's opinion becomes the rule of Harmelin --prescribed a three-part test based on Solem v. Helm fordeciding if a sentence is cruel and unusual punishment.QUESTION: Mr. Chemerinsky --QUESTION: I don't think that's quite accurate,Mr. Chemerinsky. I think if you were to take points,decisional points, you would look at Rummel on one side,and then Solem moves away from that, and then Harmelinmoves back towards Rummel.MR. CHEMERINSKY: Chief Justice Rehnquist, eachof the cases said it's consistent with all of the cases,and each of these cases cites to Weems v. United States assaying that grossly disproportionate punishments violatethe Eighth Amendment.QUESTION: What do you do as a State court judge trying to apply our cases when you take those three cases? I mean, it isn't a very obvious answer, is it?MR. CHEMERINSKY: Your Honor, many State courts,and virtually every circuit has said that JusticeKennedy's opinion from Harmelin becomes the rule ofHarmelin, because in United States v. Marks it was thenarrowest ground that a majority agreed to, and of courseJustice Kennedy's opinion is simply a modification of thethree-part Solem test.QUESTION: Well, it -- Justice -- I've just read it over, and it cites Rummel more often than it citesSolem.MR. CHEMERINSKY: Your Honor --QUESTION: So the point that I think you need toaddress is the AEDPA point. That is, is the supreme courtof California way out of line, or whatever the test is,you know, improperly applied --(Laughter.)QUESTION: -- in the light of these cases.MR. CHEMERINSKY: Yes, Your Honor. Under thisCourt's decision in Williams v. Taylor, in Bell v. Coneand yes, in Early v. Packer, there are two ways in which aFederal court can grant habeas relief. One is to findthat it is contrary to clearly established Federal law. The other is to find that it's an unreasonable application of clearly established Federal law. Both are presenthere, and all --QUESTION: But one must find in either caseclearly established Federal law, and frankly that's myproblem when you cite Weems. There are lots of grandstatements in our cases, but most of them come outrejecting the claim, and you cited Weems. That was anextraordinary case because it involved not simply hardlabor, but hard and painful labor. It was a kind of apenalty that was foreign to Anglo-American law, and if that's the one example before we get to Solem, you reallydon't have anything concrete to go on. You just havegrandly general statements.MR. CHEMERINSKY: Your Honor, there are casesprior to Solem that found sentences to be cruel andunusual punishment. In Robinson v. California in ,for example --QUESTION: That was a status crime.MR. CHEMERINSKY: Yes, Your Honor, and it didfind a violation of the Eighth Amendment.QUESTION: But you're not saying, are you, thatbeing an habitual criminal is like being a drug addict ora drunk? That is, just being drunk, just being stoned ondrugs is not a crime?MR. CHEMERINSKY: No. My point, Your Honor, is that this Court has repeatedly said that grosslydisproportionate sentences violate the Eighth Amendment,and the cases that I mentioned say that. In addition --QUESTION: That's what they say, but you'vegiven Robinson as an example, and that's a case where Ithought the Court said there was no crime, not that it wascruel and unusual punishment for a crime.MR. CHEMERINSKY: Yes, Your Honor, and what I'msimply saying is, these are examples which the Court hasrepeatedly said that grossly disproportionate sentences violate the Eighth Amendment.QUESTION: Did the California courts contradictthat? Did the California courts here say, grosslydisproportionate crimes don't violate the EighthAmendment?MR. CHEMERINSKY: Yes, Your Honor. TheCalifornia Court of Appeals, and you find this in theappendix to the cert petition, said it questioned whethergross disproportionality analysis would be applied, and itquestioned whether Solem v. Helm analysis applied, andtherefore the California Court of Appeals did not applythe three-part test from Solem v. Helm and the three-parttest that comes from Justice Kennedy's opinion inHarmelin.And in answer to Justice Ginsburg's question, it is those cases that announce the test that should havebeen applied, and those cases are clearly established law.QUESTION: Your opponent says that theCalifornia court relied on a Lynch analysis, which is aState court doing much the same thing.MR. CHEMERINSKY: No, Your Honor --QUESTION: Do you disagree with that?MR. CHEMERINSKY: I do disagree. First, theCalifornia Court of Appeal expressly said it was not goingto do gross disproportionality analysis. It did not do Solem analysis. It did not do Harmelin analysis.QUESTION: Well, I realize that, and my questionto you was, if the California court said we're going to doa Lynch analysis, is that substantially the same thing?MR. CHEMERINSKY: No, Your Honor. TheCalifornia Court of Appeal said the test under Californialaw is whether the sentence, quote, shocks the conscience. That is a quite different test than the objective test ofSolem and Harmelin, which is carefully calibrateddetermining whether a sentence is grosslydisproportionate.Also, the three factors used by the CaliforniaCourt of Appeal under the Lynch analysis were quitedifferent than the Solem analysis. First, there was nocomparison of the gravity of the offense to the harshness of the punishment. Second, the court did not look tosimilar punishments in the same jurisdiction.In California, the punishment for rape wouldhave been years in prison, the punishment formanslaughter would have been years in prison, thepunishment for second degree murder would have been years in prison, and he received years to life. Infact, if his prior offenses had been rape and murder, hecould have at most gotten a year in jail.This goes to Justice Stevens' question earlier. His prior -- his crime here was the misdemeanor ofshoplifting. Because of double-counting it was elevatedfirst to petty theft with a prior, and then it triggeredthe three strikes law, but in order for it to be pettytheft with a prior, there has to be a prior propertyoffense.If his prior crimes had been rape and murder,then his maximum sentence for stealing these videotapeswould have been a year in jail. It's because his prioroffenses were property crimes that the double-countingcould occur. Additionally --QUESTION: I thought your opponent, or perhapsthe representative of the State, said that was not so.MR. CHEMERINSKY: No, Your Honor. The confusionhere is that with regard to petty theft, petty theft, the misdemeanor can become the wobbler petty theft with aprior under California Penal Code section only if theprior crime is a property crime, and if you look atCalifornia Penal Code section , it enumerates justproperty crimes.QUESTION: Mr. Chemerinsky, I thought that whatmade the petty theft in this case into a wobbler was notthe crimes that were listed as strikes, but another pettytheft. Is that not true?MR. CHEMERINSKY: Yes, Your Honor. They used a petty theft, but they also used the burglaries to convertthe petty theft to a petty theft with a prior, and thenthey used the petty theft with a prior to trigger thethree strikes law.QUESTION: I thought they used -- they didn't --there was a second petty theft. That was the crime ofconviction. I thought there was an earlier one that madethe crime of conviction the petty theft with a prior. Isthat wrong?MR. CHEMERINSKY: That is correct. However,Your Honor, under California Penal Code section (g) anyprior felonies must be pled and proven, and the only priorfelonies here that were ever mentioned were theburglaries, and as a result, simply because of stealing$ worth of videotapes in those burglaries, he received a sentence of years to life, and under the third prongof the rule of Harmelin.QUESTION: Well, is it not so that a judgehaving the two strikes that are listed, and also havingthe full record of the crimes that this person hascommitted, that that's relevant to the discretion thejudge has to strike a strike, or to say I'm not going totreat that petty theft as a felony, the petty theft withprior as a felony. I'm not going to do that.There was in this case, was there not, in addition to the two strikes, some serious criminalactivity?MR. CHEMERINSKY: No, Your Honor, they played norole in the sentence here, and the reason, as I said, isthe California Penal Code says any prior felonies must bepled and proven. If you look at the felony complaint --QUESTION: I didn't ask you about --MR. CHEMERINSKY: I'm sorry.QUESTION: -- the ones that count as strikes. I asked you about the sentencing judge who has discretioncould say, looking at -- if that's all we had on thisrecord, I'm not going -- I'm going to exercise mydiscretion to knock down the wobbler to a misdemeanor. I'm going to knock out a strike. Isn't that in effectwhat sentencing judges would do? They would look not simply to the two strikes that are formally pled, but thisperson's entire record.MR. CHEMERINSKY: Your Honor, that not whatoccurred here. If you look at the sentencing transcripton page of the Joint Appendix, you'll see that thesentencing judge made no mention to anything other thanthe three burglaries.QUESTION: Well, isn't he presumed to know whatthe record is?MR. CHEMERINSKY: No, Your Honor, because California Penal Code requires an order, for it to beconsidered a strike, it has to be pled and proven. Thecriminal complaint here, the criminal information, thejury finding was just as to those burglaries, and thesentencing judge focused it just on those burglaries.QUESTION: Well, no. No. That's true as to thestrikes, but that doesn't mean that he didn't notice theentire record in order to inform his discretion.MR. CHEMERINSKY: Your Honor, there's no --QUESTION: Or her.MR. CHEMERINSKY: -- indication here that therewas ever any consideration other than the burglaries.QUESTION: But there's no indication that therecord was not before the judge.QUESTION: Doesn't he have that record before him? Isn't there a presentence or an equivalent of apresentencing report? Doesn't he get the record of whatthis person he's about to sentence has done in the past? MR. CHEMERINSKY: There was a probation report,but because under California law prior strikes have to bepled and proven, because only the burglaries werementioned, there's no reason here for the judge --QUESTION: Excuse me. Only the burglaries werementioned in the presentencing report?MR. CHEMERINSKY: No. Only the burglaries were proven.QUESTION: Were proven?MR. CHEMERINSKY: The jury, on pages and of the joint appendix, found the burglaries, thus therewas no reason for Andrade to challenge the contents of theprobation report, and the judge never mentioned theprobation report. He focused just on the burglaries.And the other thing that makes this case, Ithink, quite unique is no other State in the country wouldimpose a punishment like this on Andrade. The SolicitorGeneral's brief points to some instances where in essencegrand theft, stealing more than $ has led to asentence. The State can't identify, and there is noinstance where anybody else has received this sentence.QUESTION: They're saying, I take it, on this point that let's think of the class of serious criminals,and we've decided in California to tell all people in thatclass one more crime, you've had it.Now, they have to define one more crime, and sowhere they choose to draw the line is the line not beforeyou get to wobblers, but the line after you get towobblers, and they say that takes jay-walking and parkingoffenses and everything and says, we're not talking aboutthose, we're talking about these, and what the other sideis arguing is, that's within the legislative discretion that the Cruel and Unusual Punishment Clause must give. All right. Why isn't it?MR. CHEMERINSKY: Justice Breyer, the reasonthis case is different is the underlying conduct here is amisdemeanor that's double-counted in order to become thebasis for a life sentence. Earlier, for example, JusticeScalia even invoked the distinction between misdemeanorand felony. A key point here is, there is no limitingprinciple that --QUESTION: Well, no, they're saying on thatparticular point, and I'm trying to get your response --MR. CHEMERINSKY: Yes.QUESTION: -- they say, there are felonies whichare not wobblers, and they're quite serious. There arewobblers which are medium-serious, and there are those things that can't even wobble. They are trivial, andwhere we choose to draw the line is between the last --you know, between -- below the wobblers and not above. What's wrong with that?MR. CHEMERINSKY: Because that could lead to anindeterminate life sentence for stealing a candy bar oreven a gum ball.QUESTION: Yes, it could.MR. CHEMERINSKY: And that would violate --QUESTION: It could, and they'll say yes, that is true in certain circumstances, and then they willrepeat the argument I just made. I'm not holding him tomy argument. I'm trying to push you a little bit, and tosay, if people are told, one more gum ball and you've hadit, that's a legitimate purpose of sentencing.Now, how do I come back in some other thanpurely subjective way and say, well, you know, you've gonetoo far? Is there anything one is to appeal to other thana judge's subjective reaction?MR. CHEMERINSKY: It is not subjective, it isthe three-part objective test that is the rule ofHarmelin. It is first comparing the gravity of theoffense to the harshness of the punishment.In Solem v. Helm, this Court said the courts canevaluate the gravity of the offense, looking to see if it's a violent versus a nonviolent offense. LeandroAndrade never committed any violent offense.QUESTION: But in that, there's nothing inHarmelin as I reread it that indicates that you mustpreclude or prescind from that analysis, that initialanalysis, the fact that there is a recidivist elementhere.MR. CHEMERINSKY: Of course.QUESTION: Recidivism is part of the analysis.MR. CHEMERINSKY: It is, and recidivists can -- QUESTION: So we're not just talking about gumballs. We're talking about all of the offenses, includingbreaking and entering with knives and so forth.MR. CHEMERINSKY: But Leandro Andrade never wasaccused or convicted of breaking and entering with knivesand in fact, Your Honor, even if you look at all of hisoffenses, his criminal pattern is virtually identical tothat of Helm in Solem v. Helm.I would go back to Chief Justice Rehnquist'squestion --QUESTION: On that matter, what about what JudgeSneed said in his dissent in the Ninth Circuit when hepointed out that there was much in this criminal historyrecord in addition to the two strikes, including Federalmarijuana transportation offenses and a parole violation for escape from Federal prison?MR. CHEMERINSKY: First, Your Honor, as I saidbefore, there's no indication that those were everconsidered, nor could they be by the sentencing court, butsecond, Your Honor, even if you consider all of those,then his criminal record is virtually identical to Helm'sin Solem v. Helm, and this does go to Chief JusticeRehnquist's initial question.One way that this Court has said that you canfind that a penalty or a sentence is contrary to clearly established Federal law is if a State court ignores adecision that is on all fours. Solem v. Helm --QUESTION: Well, on all fours, on that point, isthere any decision where a term of years was struck downas disproportionate? Solem, I take it, was a lifesentence.MR. CHEMERINSKY: Your Honor, in Solem v. Helmit was a life sentence, but there's nothing in Solem orHarmelin that indicates that disproportionality analysisis only where there's no possibility of parole. If thatwere the analysis, then a State could avoiddisproportionality review just by calling every lifewithout possibility of parole a -year sentence.QUESTION: If the question is what's clearlyestablished, and if I'm a trial court judge, I'll look to see what the court did, not grandly general statementsthat it made about constitutional principle, and if I --if my investigation led me to find that no, there has notbeen a single case in which a term of years has beenstruck down, then I might assume that the law for terms ofyears is not clearly established.MR. CHEMERINSKY: Your Honor, Solem v. Helmanswers that question. Here, Leandro Andrade received anindeterminate life sentence with no possibility of parolefor years. That is the functional equivalent of the sentence that Helm received in Solem v. Helm, and yet theCalifornia Court of Appeal expressly said it would notapply Solem v. Helm.QUESTION: Mr. Chemerinsky, the difficulty thatI have with your argument is, number , the point thatJustice Ginsburg made, but a further point that has comeout this morning.When we are asking whether there is clearlyestablished law, I think we've got to take intoconsideration something that has become clear from, Ithink has become clear from this argument, and that isthat there is a question as to whether the test isgenuinely a proportionality or a gross disproportionalitytest, or whether that is simply an example of a kind ofrational basis test, because we've had this difficulty in fitting the recidivism into the structure ofproportionality analysis, and I think what tends to comeout in the answers that we've gotten this morning is,there's more than just proportionality which is beingconsidered here.If that is true, if that is a faircharacterization of the way our reasoning is working, thendon't we have great difficulty in saying that there wasclearly established law simply by looking to Solem and toHarmelin? MR. CHEMERINSKY: No, Your Honor. The reasonis, two things were clearly established at the time theCalifornia Court of Appeal decision came down, first, thatgrossly disproportionate sentences violate the EighthAmendment, and the court said it questioned it, didn'tapply it, and second, the test that's supposed to be used,the objective test from the rule of Harmelin -- fromSolem v. Helm, and the court did not apply that three-part test, and in that way the court acted contrary toclearly established law.Also, since Solem v. Helm is really factuallyindistinguishable in this case, the court acted contraryto in not following, and in addition --QUESTION: You're saying that if the law isgoing to become unclear, it's going to be as a result of what we say this morning, as -- rather than what we havesaid before.MR. CHEMERINSKY: Yes, Your Honor, at leastwith -- insofar as gross disproportionality violates theEighth Amendment, and the test for grossdisproportionality being clearly established, and theCalifornia courts followed neither of those.QUESTION: Well, do you -- Mr. Chemerinsky, doyou -- do you think that Solem v. Helm was as strong acase after our decision in Harmelin as it was before? MR. CHEMERINSKY: Yes, in two ways. First, thethree-part test that it prescribes is still followed,though Justice Kennedy's opinion from Harmelin saysthere's only a need to consider the latter two prongs ifthere is an inference of gross disproportionalitycomparing the gravity of the offense to the harshness ofthe punishment.And second, no subsequent case, includingHarmelin, has ever ruled, overruled Solem v. Helm, so --QUESTION: Well, but do you think a State courtjudge is acting unreasonably if he says we have threecases, Rummel, Solem, and Harmelin, and it just isn'tquite all that clear?MR. CHEMERINSKY: No, Your Honor, I think thatis unreasonable here, because the California Court of Appeal applied only Rummel, but in footnote in Solem,the Court said that Rummel is confined to its facts,because it's before the three-part test.QUESTION: Yes, but then Harmelin goes aheadand, as I say, cites Rummel more often than it does Solem.MR. CHEMERINSKY: And Rummel remains good lawinsofar as result, but Harmelin affirms the three-parttest. This Court has repeatedly affirmed that three-parttest.QUESTION: Although it didn't apply it, although it said, we don't have to go beyond the first step, and itsaid, you might get to those others in exceedingly rarecases.MR. CHEMERINSKY: That's correct, Your Honor --QUESTION: And I suppose what you are telling usis, this is that rare case.MR. CHEMERINSKY: This is that rare case,because in this instance, a man who had never committed aviolent crime received an indeterminate life sentence withno possibility of parole for years for stealing a smallamount of videotapes.QUESTION: May I ask this question that's -- isa practical one, is, in view of what I referred to beforethat Judge Sneed brought out in his dissent, if any ofthose other activities could have been priors, wouldn't a resentencing here likely yield the very same result,except that this time the prosecutor would spell out whatthat entire course of conduct was?MR. CHEMERINSKY: I think, Your Honor, thatthere is very little likelihood, based on all of theCalifornia cases, that a resentencing would lead to adifferent result here, so in that sense I agree with you,and that's why it really is a constitutional issue. Doesan indeterminate life sentence for this conduct, eventaking into account his recidivism, justify the penalty that was received here?This Court has prescribed exactly the objectivefactors to be considered, and to treat stealing $ worthof videotapes more seriously than second degree murderdoesn't even meet a rational basis test, and it is anunreasonable application, and in that way, this case --QUESTION: Well, it wasn't that they weretreating this person as someone whose prior recordwarranted incapacitating him. They weren't merelypunishing a single offense. They were punishing a person,or they were incapacitating a person that they found to bean incorrigible offender.MR. CHEMERINSKY: Based on three burglaries thatwere years earlier, and twice shoplifting a smallamount of videotapes, and that's why our argument is that this is that rare case where it is grosslydisproportionate punishment to in essence --QUESTION: But that case hasn't been seen yet. This would be it. This -- there has been -- am I wrong inthinking there has been no case since Harmelin where wehave said that a sentence is grossly disproportionate, andno lower Federal court has struck down a sentence sincethen?MR. CHEMERINSKY: It is correct that this Courthas not found any sentence to be grossly disproportionate since Harmelin -- you've not dealt with this issue sinceHarmelin -- but there are lower court cases. For example,a year ago the Eighth Circuit in Henderson v. Norris founda life sentence for possessing a small amount of cocainewas grossly disproportionate, applying the rule ofHarmelin and also applying the Solem v. Helm test.QUESTION: Was that a recidivist case?MR. CHEMERINSKY: I don't think it was arecidivist case, Your Honor.QUESTION: Has there been a recidivist casesince that trilogy that you recited?MR. CHEMERINSKY: There are State courts thathave found recidivist sentencing structures to violateUnited States Constitution, but there are not -- thenthose would also involve recidivists, and those would have applied both Solem and Helm.The West Virginia Court in State v. Deal, forexample, found a recidivist sentencing structure to becruel and unusual punishment. The Colorado court ofappeals in People v. Gaskins came to the same result, andthat also explains why this case is different than Earlyv. Packer, which you decided yesterday, and there thecriticism was that it was a situation where the Statecourt didn't cite to or mention the controlling SupremeCourt decision. Here, the California supreme court said it wasrejecting the test prescribed by this Court, rejecting thetest from Harmelin v. Michigan, which is a very differentsituation than this case.QUESTION: What were the words that it used? Idon't think it was that strong. I thought it questionedwhether those -- that was still good law.MR. CHEMERINSKY: Yes, Your Honor. The exactwording from the court was the question. The exactwording was, and I quote to you from page of theappendix to the cert petition, however, to the extent thatthe defendant suggests that proportionality analysisapplies under both the State and Federal Constitutions, wemust question that assertion, and then the court said, onthe same page, the current validity of the Solem proportionality analysis is questionable.And having said it was questionable, the courtthen did not apply the rule that grossly disproportionatesentences violate the Eighth Amendment. The court did notapply the Solem analysis, the rule of Harmelin that thecourt identified in Harmelin v. Michigan, and it was thefailure of the court to apply the controlling test, it wasthe failure of the court to follow the controllingprecedent --QUESTION: Well -- MR. CHEMERINSKY: -- that made the decisioncontrary.QUESTION: -- they say, Mr. Chemerinsky, on thatsame page, they say that the Solem proportionalityanalysis is questionable in the light of Harmelin againstMichigan. They certainly weren't saying they wererefusing to apply Harmelin.MR. CHEMERINSKY: But Your Honor, they then didnot apply the three-part test that Justice Kennedyarticulated, which is the rule of Harmelin --QUESTION: But I thought you said they simplyrefused to follow Harmelin.MR. CHEMERINSKY: Well, they didn't --QUESTION: I -- you're not meaning, then, thatthey expressly refused to follow Harmelin, you're saying that, in fact, they didn't use the same formula asHarmelin suggested?MR. CHEMERINSKY: Well, that's correct, YourHonor, they didn't use in any way the three-part test fromHarmelin.QUESTION: But --MR. CHEMERINSKY: All they did was analogize toRummel v. Estelle.QUESTION: That was not the Court's test, thatwas Justice Kennedy's test, which you say was the lowest common denominator. You think it's clearly establishedlaw that where you have a split decision, the lowestcommon denominator is the law of the land?MR. CHEMERINSKY: In United States --QUESTION: I think that's a highly controvertedproposition myself.MR. CHEMERINSKY: Your Honor, in United Statesv. Marks this Court described how to determine the rulewhen there is no majority opinion, but especially here,where Justice Kennedy is simply slightly modifying a priortest from Solem v. Helm, the law is clearly established.QUESTION: Not an opinion of the Court, anopinion of Justice Kennedy, and you say that all theStates' courts have to accept the proposition that that isthe law of the land?MR. CHEMERINSKY: Your Honor, virtually everycircuit has said that is the rule of Harmelin, butespecially so here, where it is simply slightly modifyinga test that's been on the books for years, sinceSolem v. Helm, that says three considerations are used tocalibrate whether a sentence is cruel and unusual.QUESTION: So Justice Powell's opinion in Bakkeis the law of the land, and you think that that isgenerally accepted?MR. CHEMERINSKY: My sense is you're going to have occasion soon enough to deal with that issue --QUESTION: Understood.MR. CHEMERINSKY: -- but --(Laughter.)QUESTION: My point is that the proposition isnot, is simply not well-established, that you must accepta less than majority opinion of the Supreme Court as beingthe law of the land so long as it's the lowest commondenominator.MR. CHEMERINSKY: Your Honor, I think there'sthree reasons why it is. First, this Court's opinion inUnited States v. Marks describes how to determine what theholding is.Second, every circuit -- and we cite this in ourbrief -- refers to the rule of Harmelin, and virtually every State that's considered it refers to the rule ofHarmelin, which shows that it's clearly established.And third, the Solem v. Helm test was not in anyway overruled. Seven Justices in this Court in Harmelinadhered to the Solem test.QUESTION: But they split to as to what thetest required in that case, didn't they?MR. CHEMERINSKY: But seven Justices --QUESTION: So you -- doesn't that throw somedoubt as to how closely you follow that? MR. CHEMERINSKY: No, Your Honor. SevenJustices agreed that grossly disproportionate sentencesviolate the Constitution. Four would apply an even moreprotective standard for criminal defendants, but sevenJustices clearly adhered to that. Seven Justices adheredto the Solem v. Helm test.QUESTION: But doesn't that suggest that thetest isn't that clear if they apply it and three come outone way and four come out the other?MR. CHEMERINSKY: Your Honor, often Justiceswill disagree, but the question here is, is the ruleclearly established, and the rule that grosslydisproportionate sentences violate the Constitution, therule that there's an objective three-part test, is what isthe clearly established law, and Your Honor, if any sentence is grossly disproportionate, it's this case.The punishment here isn't just cruel andunusual, it's cruel and unique. The State can't point toeven one other person in the history of the United Stateswho has received a sentence of years to life forshoplifting a small amount of merchandise. Even inCalifornia this sentence would be regarded as quite --much larger than, say, second degree murder, manslaughter,rape, which shows that it is a grossly disproportionatepunishment. Thank you.QUESTION: Thank you, Mr. Chemerinsky.Mr. Danzig, you have minutes remaining.REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF DOUGLAS P. DANZIGON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONERMR. DANZIG: Thank you. Given the limited time,there are just a couple of brief points I would like tomake about respondent's argument.I think it's clear that when he's arguing thatthe proportionality analysis has to be confined to thepredicate offenses and the triggering offense, withoutregard to the entire record, what he is essentially doingis raising a facial challenge to the statute despite thefact that the Ninth Circuit claimed that they were notinvalidating the statute, and to that extent that any facial challenge can be made, the ameliorating provisionsof the California scheme would result in a finding thatthe statute is not -- in -- unconstitutional on its face.Secondly, just as a points, a couple of pointsof correction -- the Court has already touched upon it --the court of appeal did not question whether theproportionality analysis was correct. It questionedwhether Solem's version of the proportionality analysiswas still correct. That's what the State court did, andit still went ahead and applied a proportionality analysis via a State court decision of Lynch.And in terms of whether gross disproportionalitywas addressed or not, the State used, or the State courtused a standard articulated from Lynch, which is shocksthe conscience, and it is much stronger language and is atleast reasonably a euphemism for grossly disproportionate.Also, I will find the page in just a moment, butI believe at the sentencing hearing the judge did indicatethat he had considered the probation report. It's in thejoint appendix, and I will find the cite in a moment.Ultimately, if there's any doubt about whetherthere's clear precedent or not, the -- I think that theState court determination should be given deference inthis case, and almost finally, not -- Andrade did notreceive life for three burglaries and two petties, he received that because the ameliorating provisions go intothe analysis, and as he was not granted the benefit of anyof them, and in fact hasn't even asserted one of them, hedid not receive that sentence for that, for strictly lifefor three burglaries and two petties. He's received itbased on his overall record.In terms of whether there are -- anyone else inCalifornia has suffered a similar sentence, while we -- Ihave no reference to any -year-to-life sentences basedon two convictions, there are and -- approximately defendants in California serving -year-to-life sentencesfor petty offense, offense with a prior which constitutesthe one -to-life sentence.QUESTION: But that's under the three strikesregime?MR. DANZIG: Correct, Your Honor. Finally --QUESTION: So that doesn't tell us much aboutthe constitutionality of the three strikes regime.MR. DANZIG: No. It was simply a response torespondent's assertion that we could not point to anyoneelse serving a similarly severe sentence for a similarcrime --QUESTION: But we have the SG's footnote, whichdoes have a few.MR. DANZIG: Yes, Your Honor.QUESTION: But not this serious. I mean, notthis trivial.MR. DANZIG: Well, I don't think -- I would notcharacterize it as trivial, but I understand --QUESTION: Not this -- I'm looking for the rightword. Not this minor?MR. DANZIG: I think that under the Californiascheme it's clear presumptively that theft is a felonyoffense, and we simply grant -- and California simply grants the first-time offender an opportunity to reform. I don't consider it trivial or minor.Ultimately, we would ask the Court to disapproveVan Tran. It's presenting significant problems. It'sinconsistent with this Court's pronouncements inWilliams v. Taylor and in Bell v. Cone and Penry v.Johnson. It establishes a methodology that is simplyincorrect, and finally, in , Congress limited thescope of Federal habeas corpus review.Here, the Ninth Circuit failed to properly applythose, the principles guiding that analysis.CHIEF JUSTICE REHNQUIST: Thank you, Mr. Danzig.MR. DANZIG: Thank you, Your Honor.CHIEF JUSTICE REHNQUIST: The case is submitted.(Whereupon at : p.m., the case in the above-entitled matter was submitted.) 