 IN THE SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -XPHARMACEUTICAL RESEARCH AND MANUFACTURERS OF AMERICA Petitioner :::v. : No. -KEVIN CONCANNON, COMMISSIONER, :MAINE DEPARTMENT OF HUMAN SERVICES, ET AL. ::- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -XWashington, D.C.Wednesday, January , The above-entitled matter came on for oralargument before the Supreme Court of the United States at: a.m.APPEARANCES:CARTER G. PHILLIPS, ESQ., Washington, D.C.; on behalf ofthe Petitioner.EDWIN S. KNEEDLER, ESQ., Deputy Solicitor General,Department of Justice, Washington, D.C.; on behalf ofthe United States, as amicus curiae.ANDREW S. HAGLER, ESQ., Assistant Attorney General,Augusta, Maine; on behalf of the Respondents. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC C O N T E N T SORAL ARGUMENT OF CARTER G. PHILLIPS, ESQ.On behalf of the Petitioner ORAL ARGUMENT OFEDWIN S. KNEEDLER, ESQ.PAGEOn behalf of the United States, as amicus curiae ORAL ARGUMENT OFANDREW S. HAGLER, ESQ.On behalf of the Respondents REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OFCARTER G. PHILLIPS, ESQ.On behalf of the Petitioner th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC P R O C E E D I N G S(: a.m.)CHIEF JUSTICE REHNQUIST: We'll hear argumentnext in Number -, The Pharmaceutical Research andManufacturers of America v. Kevin Concannon, et al.Mr. Phillips.ORAL ARGUMENT OF CARTER G. PHILLIPSON BEHALF OF PETITIONERMR. PHILLIPS: Thank you, Mr. Chief Justice, andmay it please the Court:Under U.S.C. section a, in subsection (a)(), which is found on page of the joint appendix,Congress made absolutely clear, as a singular preconditionof all Medicaid plans, that they must assure that care andservices will be provided in a manner consistent with simplicity of administration and the best interests of therecipients. This statute does not allow Maine to useMedicaid recipients as pawns in its effort to reducehealth care costs for those individuals who are noteligible for Medicaid.QUESTION: Was this statute -- was the statutediscussed in the First Circuit opinion?MR. PHILLIPS: The Medicaid statute?QUESTION: The -- the provision you just read. MR. PHILLIPS: Oh, absolutely, Mr. Chief th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC Justice.QUESTION: Mr. Phillips, that -- that provisionis -- is in the portion of the statute dealing with theapproval of the State plan, a State plan has to have thatconsequence. It has to serve the interest of the Medicaidrecipients.MR. PHILLIPS: That's true, Justice Scalia.QUESTION: It doesn't say that each -- each --each feature enacted by a State has to be judgedindividually under that standard. It seems to me, whyisn't it the case that if -- if a State adopts someprovision which does not comply with that provision, itsplan is no longer a conforming plan, and the Secretary hasexplicit authority under the statute to -- to repeal theSecretary's prior approval of the plan. Why isn't thatthe way this thing should work?MR. PHILLIPS: Well, the way this operates isthat this is not adopted as a part of the State's planthat's subjected to review by the Secretary of HHS. What this is, is a completely separate program that's beenadopted independently, and all it does is reach out andhold the recipients of Medicaid as hostages in order toextract money from out-of-state manufacturers --QUESTION: Yes, but do you --MR. PHILLIPS: -- but it's not a part of the th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC plan.QUESTION: -- but is it -- is it the case, if wewere to, let's suppose, affirm here, that the Health &Human Services head could nonetheless call a halt to itand say, you no longer conform with our understanding ofwhat's required, you're holding hostage our Medicaidrecipients and it's having a negative effect on thembecause of the prior approval requirements of drugs thatotherwise wouldn't be required? Is -- would -- would theSecretary have that power?MR. PHILLIPS: I believe the Secretary mighthave that power, although I would ask you to askMr. Kneedler when -- when he's arguing.QUESTION: Well, I probably will.(Laughter.)MR. PHILLIPS: But over and above that, thatdoesn't -- but that's not an exclusive remedy, that's all.QUESTION: But how can the authorizationprovision and the requirements attached to theauthorization provision, how can that conceivably not bepart of the State plan, as you say? I mean, it seems tome it's central to the --MR. PHILLIPS: Well, I mean --QUESTION: -- there's an authorization --MR. PHILLIPS: -- there's a -- there's a th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC formalistic way of looking at it, which is that they havea State plan, and this is not incorporated as part of theState plan. What this has been -- what has been done hereis to adopt a completely separate program which simplyreaches out, as I said before, and seeks to hold hostagecertain elements of it.QUESTION: But if you take that position, theState plan could be rendered meaningless. I mean, theState plan simply becomes a kind of formal Open Sesame.The -- there's got to be power to look, asJustice Scalia suggests, or the State plan means nothing.MR. PHILLIPS: Well, no, there has to be a Stateplan. The question is whether or not (a)() reflectscongressional intent that the State has to act in aparticular way. If it acts contrary to that way, the only question then is, are there multiple remedies available torespond to it?I think, Justice O'Connor, the answer to yourquestion is yes. I think the Secretary does have thatauthority to go forward, although I would askMr. Kneedler --QUESTION: Can I ask this question: Could theState, if it just -- without adopting a Maine Rx program,just decide, we want to take a good, hard look at everysale of drugs that comes into our State, so we're going to th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC subject every drug manufacturer to prior approval pursuantto r-(d), could they do that?MR. PHILLIPS: I -- there's an open question asto whether they could do that. Certainly, if you take themost expansive reading of r-(d) you could make thatargument. The alternative argument would be to whatextent that that violates or interferes with the formularyformulations that are embedded in the statute.QUESTION: But if they do have that authority,and you say that's an open question, doesn't it follow, afortiori, that they can do what they're doing here?MR. PHILLIPS: No, it doesn't follow a fortiori,because what they're doing here is imposing the priorauthorization with respect to, you know, to serve purposesthat are completely unrelated to the Medicaid program. QUESTION: Well, maybe my hypothetical wascompletely unrelated. They just want to be sure you canopen the caps on the drug containers, or whatever it mightbe, some idiocentric -- I don't think that the -- as Iread it, I don't see anything in that provision that saysit must serve a Medicaid purpose.MR. PHILLIPS: Well, I think you'd have to readthat provision in the context of the entirety of theprovision providing for coverage of drugs, and I think youhave to do it in that context, and I think there are th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC broader issues there, but the singular problem here,obviously, is that if you interpret the statute as broadlyas the State of Maine does to say that we can impose priorauthorization requirements, then what they can say is, wewant to extract money from manufacturers solely for thepurpose of building schools or roads or anything else thatwe want to, and there's no restriction on that, and itseems to me that if what you're saying is you want to haveprior authorization as a mechanism to deal withinMedicaid, to provide generally for a balance of interestbetween Medicaid recipients, that's one thing.But what -- what -- what Maine is doing is usingMedicaid recipients to further completely unrelatedpurposes of the State, then it seems to me what you'vedone is essentially ask the Federal Government to subsidize a program that -- that's not an appropriate oneto subsidize.QUESTION: Okay, what about the halfway measure,and the halfway measure has been described by theGovernment as -- as some instances of prior approval that,that it would authorize that go beyond what the -- the --the -- the very strict enforcement of Medicaid in alimited sense would require. Do you think what theGovernment has -- excuse me. Do you think what theGovernment has suggested is also beyond the authorization th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC of the statute?MR. PHILLIPS: I think it is. I think thebetter way to read the statute is to recognize that thisis designed to benefit Medicaid recipients, and theproblem is, once you get past programs that are designedto benefit recipients themselves, it's very difficult tosee where you draw the line after that in terms of whereit goes.QUESTION: Well, is it correct that theSecretary has approved a few plans in other States that dogo beyond, technically, the direct Medicaid recipients,for instance, the people who are very close to the lineand might well become eligible soon?MR. PHILLIPS: Justice O'Connor, that iscorrect. They have approved those programs. QUESTION: Yes.MR. PHILLIPS: Those programs are in litigationas we stand here --QUESTION: Uh-huh.MR. PHILLIPS: -- as I stand here today, and --QUESTION: Is that possible -- I mean, as I'mseeing this at the moment, if the State uses theauthorization program for any purpose at all, we know thatsome -- that some Medicaid recipients will be hurt.MR. PHILLIPS: Yes. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC QUESTION: If a Medicaid recipient walks into adrugstore and asks for drug X, that recipient can get itmore easily if it's not on this prior approval list thanif it is, and that being so, it must be impermissibleunder Federal law, unless the object of the programachieves a Medicaid-related purpose, so the question infront of us is, does it?Now, what's bothering me about that is that theSecretary thinks some programs like Maine's are okay, andothers maybe not.MR. PHILLIPS: Well --QUESTION: So in my mind the words, primaryjurisdiction, suddenly flash red. How can I decide thiscase without knowing what the Secretary thinks, and howcan -- I mean, after all, if the Secretary says this one is okay, that would have a big leg up under Chevron, andif the Secretary says no, it wouldn't, so why isn't thecorrect principle primary jurisdiction, which we can applywhether the parties like it or not, and why isn't thecorrect result here to send it back to the district courtand say, district court, Maine cannot put this into effectuntil they ask the Secretary about it?MR. PHILLIPS: Well, I don't have any particularproblem with sending it back to the district courtenjoined subject to approval by the Secretary of HHS, I th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC mean, if that's the way the Court wanted to resolve thiscase.QUESTION: Well, I'm really -- that's not what Iwant. I want to have --QUESTION: Is that the way primary jurisdictionworks? I thought there has to be in place some mechanismfor getting the agency to pass upon the question, amechanism that the person who is dismissed from Federalcourt is entitled to use, and I'm not sure that existshere.MR. PHILLIPS: I don't know, Justice Scalia,that you need to be dismissing it from Federal court. Ithink it's quite possible for the --QUESTION: Well, even if you sit on it untilit's done --MR. PHILLIPS: Right, stay your hand pending --QUESTION: -- you still have to assure thatthere's some -- some mechanism. I mean, all the primaryjurisdiction cases I know of, there -- there was a meansto file a case before the agency.MR. PHILLIPS: Well, I don't disagree with that,Justice Scalia.QUESTION: Well, I disagree with it, so we'llhave to work it out.QUESTION: You can't just send them off and say, th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC you know, ask the Secretary, by the way, and have theSecretary write us a letter. I don't know that we've everdone that.MR. PHILLIPS: Well, I'm not sure that thereisn't a mechanism for asking the -- to petition theSecretary for review. I think if Maine wanted to getapproval of this particular program, it certainly had itavailable to do that. It didn't seek that particularcourse.And Justice Breyer, I think it's important, inthe context of trying to figure out primary jurisdiction,we know the views of the United States with respect tothis particular program. There may be other programs, asJustice O'Connor identified, that come close to the linewhere the Secretary would have a different view, and I think it's appropriate in --QUESTION: Is their views the Secretary's view?QUESTION: That's what I --QUESTION: I'll -- fine, I'll ask them.MR. PHILLIPS: I believe it is the Secretary'sview, but --QUESTION: Mr. Phillips, as I understand yourposition, so long as it benefits Medicaid recipients, any-- any authorization scheme is okay? I mean, a State cansay, we'll authorize your drug if you pay $ to each th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC Medicaid recipient?MR. PHILLIPS: That is not my position. Mybasic position is that the Court doesn't need to figureout precisely what prior authorizations are permissible inorder to decide this case, because the one thing thatshould be absolutely clear is, you cannot use thismechanism in a Federal program in order to disadvantagethe primary recipients of that program without serving anyMedicaid, sort of, related purpose.QUESTION: You -- you -- you may be up in a --in a later case arguing that the -- that the reasonablereading of the authorization requirement is -- is toassure the safety of the drug, or the necessity of thedrug for the particular illness?MR. PHILLIPS: That -- that's absolutely correct, Justice Scalia. We'd -- we -- I mean, I think wewould take that position, and that we -- that you cannotread (d)() completely in isolation, and -- and to thefullest extent of the language of that, without regard tothe rest of the provisions of (d)() through (d)(), andyou -- and for sure, you cannot read them without regardto the more fundamental requirement in subsection (a) and(a)(), that the primary consideration must be thebeneficiaries of this program.They are the most needy people in our country, th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC and the notion that you use them as a mechanism for tryingto simply lower health care costs for the Steven Kings ofthe world strikes me as -- as an outrageous position forthe State of Maine to take.QUESTION: No, but they may not be doing that. They may think that the object of this is to lower thehealth care costs for the moderately poor not yet onMedicaid, and thereby prevent people from falling into theMedicaid category.MR. PHILLIPS: Justice Breyer, that would be apersuasive argument if this statute had any kind of atailoring mechanism to it whatsoever. It is open to allresidents who are otherwise not covered by --QUESTION: Maine says those are never caught --QUESTION: Administrative regulations, one of the things that Maine said was, you've stopped us at thethreshold. We could have regulations that say, forexample, people who are covered by insurance will not haveaccess to this benefit, but on the question -- you saidwould -- you would be content if the Court said, theSecretary has to look at it, until then it's no good.Would you have -- this is the -- your lawsuit. Could you have gone to the Secretary and say, said,Secretary, we want you to look at this, the Secretarysays, I'm busy with a dozen other things and I don't want th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC to look at it?MR. PHILLIPS: I don't know of any statutorymechanism for a third party to come in and ask theSecretary to review a State plan. I don't know that -- Idon't know that there's anything that prevents anyone fromsending a letter to the Secretary to ask him to take, toundertake that. That said, the Secretary obviously knowsabout this particular scheme.QUESTION: Yes, and the Secretary, you said thatthe -- at least the SG supports your view that this --that this program of Maine's is impermissible, but the SGalso told us, essentially, that this case wasn't ripe, sowe shouldn't have granted cert. I mean, that was the SG'sfirst position, that this is a -- we don't know what, infact, the Maine scheme is, because it was never -- it never went into effect, because you got an injunction.MR. PHILLIPS: But the one thing that weabsolutely know about the Maine scheme, and it -- JusticeBreyer described it, is that every Medicaid recipient isplaced at risk by the prior authorization scheme.QUESTION: Yes, but Mr. Phillips, are there anyfindings that any Medicaid recipient has actually beenharmed by this program? I -- this is a --MR. PHILLIPS: Well, because there was ajoinder -- th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC QUESTION: -- one of the things that bothers me,I don't know that we have any findings by the districtcourt as to what the real impact will be. I know your --your -- the Government says this is going to happen --MR. PHILLIPS: Well, if --QUESTION: -- but if everybody agreed, forexample, to join the Maine program, maybe it may work outfine.MR. PHILLIPS: The -- I don't have to go to theUnited States. The State of Maine concedes in its briefat page , Maine Rx can be expected to trigger priorauthorization more often than previously.QUESTION: Yes, but it may well be that priorauthorization would, in turn, lead to some solutionbetween the drug companies and the State as to how this will all be handled. I don't think the fact they agreedthat it would trigger prior authorization necessarilyproves the conclusion that the Medicaid recipients will beharmed. It may well be true, but I'm just not sure --MR. PHILLIPS: Well, but --QUESTION: -- the record supports that --MR. PHILLIPS: Well --QUESTION: -- as of this stage of the case.MR. PHILLIPS: Well, but there'd be no way toenjoin the program before going into effect, which means th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC that you essentially have to wait until actual Medicaidrecipients are deprived of drugs in order to be able toimplement -- to stop a program that on its face doesnothing to benefit Medicaid beneficiaries, and clearlyposes a serious threat to them.I -- if we go back to Hines v. Davidowitzlanguage, it talks about the full achievement of Congress'objectives.QUESTION: But it only opposes the very threatthat the statute by its own terms authorizes. That's thethreat.MR. PHILLIPS: Well, but it only authorizes --QUESTION: The threat of prior approval whichthe statute authorizes.MR. PHILLIPS: Sure. It -- to serve Medicaid-related purposes.QUESTION: But the statute doesn't say that.MR. PHILLIPS: I -- I understand that, JusticeStevens, but the point is that if you read the statute,and it's essentially six, those six words, to say that theState has unlimited authority to do that, it strikes me asinconceivable that Congress would have allowed this entiremechanism to be available for the State to come in andsimply to raise revenue from out-of-State manufacturers. There is no rational basis for that kind of a conclusion. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC The much more sensible way to narrow the statuteis to say, if it serves other Medicaid purposes, thenthat's an appropriate way to proceed. If it doesn't, thenit seems to me the -- the Court has to conclude that thebest interests of the beneficiaries ultimately has totrump here under these circumstances.QUESTION: Mr. Phillips, do you also rely on theCommerce Clause as somehow prohibiting what Maine hasdone --argument?MR. PHILLIPS: I --QUESTION: -- and if so, how do you make thatMR. PHILLIPS: Well, Justice O'Connor, we havethree components to that argument. The thing that is -- Iconcede at the outset that there is no case at this Court that directly controls in either direction. This is aunique scheme that's been adopted here, and -- and --QUESTION: Is there anything in the CommerceClause that prevents a State from addressing within itsState boundaries requirements for dispensing prescriptiondrugs?MR. PHILLIPS: Well, when the entire burden ofthe program falls out of State, it seems to us that thiscreates at least a serious question about what's going onhere. The -- th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC QUESTION: Well, any State regulation, a Statewants to have a special rule for a bicycle, you could say,well, that increases the cost to the manufacturer and theother States have to pay for it, so I'm -- I'm not surethat that reasoning, which was in your brief, carries theday.MR. PHILLIPS: Well, I --QUESTION: Like a special fuel requirement forautomobiles? Do you think California can set certainstandards, that of course it affects the automanufacturers? They don't make them in California.MR. PHILLIPS: Yes. There's no question thatStates are free to create certain types of regulationsthat are different from other States, and that's -- andthat's not the full sweep of the argument that we're making here. What -- what --QUESTION: That's not what happened here.MR. PHILLIPS: No, that's --QUESTION: I don't understand the CommerceClause argument.MR. PHILLIPS: I wouldn't presume to try toteach you about the Commerce Clause, Justice O'Connor, butthe reality of what's happening here is much more like theWest Lynn Creamery case, where what you're talking aboutis the payment of a subsidy, all by out-of-state entities, th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC in order to benefit -- in that case it was to benefit in-state competitors. There are no in-state competitors inthis case.QUESTION: Oh, I've got quite --QUESTION: Isn't that a --QUESTION: -- a problem with the argument.QUESTION: That was the problem.MR. PHILLIPS: I'm sorry.QUESTION: I'm sorry.MR. PHILLIPS: I didn't hear --QUESTION: Well -- no, let me yield to JusticeKennedy.QUESTION: I had thought you might make theargument -- I didn't see it in your brief, maybe I missedit -- that this is just so burdensome on manufacturers to go from State to State to State that it's just an -- it'san undue burden on an interstate transaction, period.MR. PHILLIPS: Under Pike v. Bruce Church.QUESTION: And -- and Southern Pacific v.Arizona.MR. PHILLIPS: Yeah. The reason we didn't raisethat argument is that we thought that we would require --in order to make that argument we would require morefactual findings by the district court --QUESTION: Right. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC MR. PHILLIPS: -- in order to get into it,because there's a balancing component to that --QUESTION: The other thing I wondered about is,if you've come over from Vermont or New York you can'thave the advantage of this. I suppose it's notnecessarily in your interest to argue that it has to beexpanded to other States, but I -- it seems to me thatalso was a questionable part of the program.MR. PHILLIPS: Well, I do think one of the realproblems with this program is that some States will adoptthis kind of a scheme and other States won't adopt thiskind of a scheme, which means that you're going to haveinherent discrimination with respect to consumers. Someconsumers will benefit to the detriment of otherconsumers, and it does seem to me that -- that the theory of West Lynn Creamery was designed to say that you don'tjust look at the competitors and the relationships betweenthem, you have to look more broadly at the manufacturers,the wholesalers, all the retailers, and all the way downto the consumers, and if you have the kind ofdiscriminatory effects here where Maine seizes for itselfall the economic benefits and imposes on -- on everyoneelse the economic burdens, that in that circumstance thisruns afoul of the core --QUESTION: The -- wasn't this -- th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC MR. PHILLIPS: -- command of the CommerceClause.QUESTION: -- one of the reasons the FirstCircuit vacated the injunction, the fact that there justhadn't been any factual development here as to what washappening?MR. PHILLIPS: Well, that was part -- yes, to besure, Mr. Chief Justice, that's part of what they said. On the other hand, if you accept our basic theory aboutthe clear discriminatory implication of the way the schemeoperates, that kind of an operation is per se invalid. That's what the Court held in -- in West Lynn Creamery.QUESTION: But isn't the West Lynn Creamerydifficulty in your argument that here, unlike West Lynn,there are no entities within the same category, manufacturers, e.g., producers, for example, some of whomare being discriminated in favor of others? What's goingon here is not discrimination by the State within a givenclass to benefit the members of the class within theState. What is going on here is a scheme which happens tofall on certain individuals in a manufacturing class who,incidentally, are out of State, for the benefit of peoplein a different class, that is, the consumers, who are in-State, and West Lynn doesn't govern that.MR. PHILLIPS: No, it doesn't directly cover th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC that, and I conceded that at the outset.On the other hand, the point here is that thereare entities out there in the stream that are withinMaine, and on whom this burden is not imposed. It waschosen to impose the burden strictly on the manufacturers,and it is done in a way that will create disparate impactswith respect to consumers in Maine versus consumers inother -- in other States, but --QUESTION: That is -- I mean, that's a -- that'sa necessary consequence of the prior approval scheme. That -- you're going to have that argument no -- no matterhow -- no matter how prior approval --MR. PHILLIPS: Well, and -- and if it operateswithin Medicaid, it seems to me that there's no -- there'sno significant argument to be made there, because Congress has basically taken it over.QUESTION: Simply because you've got to have it.MR. PHILLIPS: But otherwise -- and one lastpoint I'd like to make, which is simply that the CommerceClause issue does not need to be addressed in the eventthe Court holds that the, that the Maine statute ispreempted.If -- I'd like to reserve the balance of mytime.QUESTION: Very well, Mr. Phillips. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC Mr. Kneedler.ORAL ARGUMENT OF EDWIN S. KNEEDLERON BEHALF OF THE UNITED STATES, AS AMICUS CURIAEMR. KNEEDLER: Mr. Chief Justice, and may itplease the Court:The Department of Health & Human Services hasarticulated a position on two issues that are directlyrelevant to this case, and those positions are set forthin the letter to the State Medicaid directors that is setforth in an appendix to our brief at page, I believe it'spage a it begins. The first of those --QUESTION: Well, does that lead to a conclusionas to its view as to this program that we're considering? Is it valid, or isn't it?MR. KNEEDLER: If I could -- there are two problems --QUESTION: As far as the Secretary is concerned.MR. KNEEDLER: There are two problems withthe -- with the State program under this Medicaiddirector's letter that the Secretary sent out. The firstis that it's the position of the department that a plansuch as this, which imposes a prior approval requirementfor Medicaid patients, if the drug manufacturer does notpay rebates with respect to sales to non-Medicaidpatients, that sort of change is a material change in the th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC State's plan which requires the approval of a planamendment.There is a regulation that we cite in our briefat page , and quote, that requires that, and that, bythe way, I think could be the -- the mechanism effectivelyfor a prior jurisdiction sort of approach.QUESTION: I see that, but I -- I mean, I'm alittle bit at sea. I absolutely wouldn't call it primaryjurisdiction. The label doesn't matter, but the -- the --but -- now, where I'm -- where I'm -- where I'm at sea isin figuring out whether it's possible to say, and youdon't say this in your brief, that -- that a program likeMaine's, which is arguably, arguably wrong, or arguablyright, that it can't go into effect without the priorapproval of HHS. Now, that's going to require me to look up the approval statutes, a whole lot of things thatweren't briefed.MR. KNEEDLER: Well, it's -- the -- the -- wehave cited this regulation in our brief, and the -- andunder Allens v. Robbins the Secretary's, or the -- theSecretary's interpretation's set forth in the brief. It'salso set forth in the Medicaid director's letter.QUESTION: After the Secretary acted under it,then. What are you bothering us for? If the Secretaryhas power under this -- under this regulation to stop this th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC plan from going forward because it amounts to an amendmentof the -- of the plan, and an amendment that hasn't beenapproved, the -- the Secretary has the power to stop it. Why -- you know, why --MR. KNEEDLER: Well --QUESTION: -- do we have to get involved?MR. KNEEDLER: Well, if I could just answer thatand then move to the second question, because I think it'srelated, the regulation identifies what -- that materialchanges in the plan have to be submitted for an amendment. The Secretary's enforcement authority comes from adifferent source, which is in U.S.C. c, whichallows the Secretary to cut off funds in whole or in partif a State is operating under a plan that requires anamendment because of those changes, so -- but I --QUESTION: Well then, why doesn't the Secretarydo it?MR. KNEEDLER: I think it was -- it's entirelyreasonable -- first of all, that's a matter of enforcementdiscretion under Heckler v. Cheney, and at least for thetime being, why this -- while this case is under -- isunder submission, the Secretary has not -- has notproceeded.QUESTION: Well, but I think the Secretary isignoring one serious problem, and I suspect it's behind th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC Justice Scalia's question. It's certainly in my mind. It's one thing for the Secretary to act within enforcementpower. It's one thing for the Secretary to interpret theregs by, the statute by regulations that are subject toChevron deference, but if the Secretary does neither oneof those things, and from one side of the Secretary'smouth we hear, well, yes, some prior approval beyond whatis strictly necessary for the direct benefit of Medicaidrecipients is okay, but this goes a little bit too far,courts are then placed in the position of saying, well,can we read the statute so precisely as to say that theSecretary's position of what is okay is okay and, by goingthis step further, there's a violation of the statute?We are placed in a very difficult position, ineffect by the Secretary, by you, in being asked to draw a line with a very fine pencil, whereas if the Secretarywants to act under administrative authority, presumablythat's the end of it.MR. KNEEDLER: Well, in going forward, I mean,the Secretary issued this Medicaid director's letter inSeptember, after the Court had granted review --QUESTION: Ah.MR. KNEEDLER: -- because this was an area thatrequired attention. Going forward, we -- we expectthat -- that States will submit their proposals to the th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC Secretary as plan amendments --QUESTION: Well, is there some --QUESTION: And --QUESTION: Is there some mechanism by -- orauthority by which we could somehow refer this back to thedistrict court to seek some kind of information from theSecretary?MR. KNEEDLER: Well, here's the way I think thatit could proceed.QUESTION: How -- how could we do it? I don'tknow of a doctrine but --MR. KNEEDLER: I -- I think the proceduralposture of this case would allow that, and let me explainwhy. The Secretary's second position in this case, whichI wanted to also make sure I articulated, which was that a -- that a proposed, or a plan such as this, whichprovides for rebates for non-Medicaid patients, still mustserve some Medicaid purpose.In the district court, when the district courtentered what is only a preliminary injunction at thisstage, at page of the petition appendix, the districtcourt pointed out that the State had not argued that itsproposal served any Medicaid purpose. As the preliminaryinjunction was entered, it was entered on that premise. The court of appeals then speculated that perhaps it does th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC serve a Medicaid purpose, but looking back at when thepreliminary injunction was entered, it was entered on thepremise that it served none, and we think, and theSecretary believes that a plan must at least serve someMedicaid purpose.QUESTION: But as I understand it, Mr. Kneedler,it is -- it is at least theoretically possible that theSecretary could approve this very plan.MR. KNEEDLER: If -- on the proper showing. Therationale --QUESTION: Right, of course. It needs morefacts.MR. KNEEDLER: Yes. The rationale adopted bythe district court was the rationale that some --QUESTION: Yes. It may have now advanced a Medicaid-related purpose that may or may not besufficient.MR. KNEEDLER: That's -- but we believe that thepurpose that has been advanced does not save this statute. The purpose that has been advanced and was identified bythe court of appeals was a purpose that some people whowere close to being Medicaid-eligible will be forced tospend more on drugs, may become Medicaid-eligible, andtherefore cost the Medicaid program more money. That's aMedicaid-related purpose. The problem is, the State th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC statute is not tailored to people who are close to thepoverty line.QUESTION: So is the procedure --QUESTION: Would you -- would you finish yourresponse to me --MR. KNEEDLER: Yes. What --QUESTION: -- to tell me --MR. KNEEDLER: Yes. QUESTION: -- what it is that you think we coulddo?MR. KNEEDLER: If the Court reversed the courtof appeals decision, in effect affirmed the districtcourt's injunction, which was entered on the basis thatthe plan serves no Medicaid-related purpose, the Stateprogram would be enjoined.At that point the State of Maine could submitthe program to the Secretary of Health & Human Servicesalong with any justifications for the plan, such asthose -- there are two additional ones that have beenraised in its brief in this Court for the first time, andwe think that's how it should play out.This is a -- right now, the case presents a verynarrow issue on a preliminary injunction.QUESTION: Why couldn't that procedure befollowed by affirming, and saying there should be a th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC hearing in the district court on these very issues thatyou're raising, and both sides would present the facts?MR. KNEEDLER: We don't think it would be ahearing in the district court. We believe it should besubmitted to the Secretary, because a plan amendment isrequired, but we do believe that -- that the petitionerhas made a sufficient showing based on the, on what thedistrict court said, that this plan, that Maine hadoffered no justification, no Medicaid justification forthe plan.QUESTION: Do you read the statutoryauthorization for prior approval to mean prior approvalonly if there's a Medicaid-related benefit?MR. KNEEDLER: We -- we do. The legislativehistory of the prior approval position --QUESTION: You rely entirely on legislativehistory for that?MR. KNEEDLER: No, and also there are two otherprovisions of the act which we think are relevant, on theone hand, a(), which talks about the best interests ofthe patients, but on the other hand, a() -- this isa()(A), which says that a State plan must providefor methods of payment that advance efficiency and economyin the Medicaid program.We think both of those speak to interests within th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC the Medicaid program and require in the prior approvalprocess, as well as in the administration of the plangenerally, weighing the interests of the Medicaidbeneficiaries against the broader institutional interestsof the Medicaid program. If there was no Medicaid-relatedpurpose requirement at all, then a State could impose aprior approval requirement if the drug company contributesmoney to the art museum or to the State highway program.We think that under this Court's decision in Dublino, theState must be pursuing a purpose in common with theFederal Government, a Medicaid-related purpose. What --what the scope --QUESTION: Mr. Kneedler, it -- it was theGovernment's first position that this Court ought to letthe case ripen, and now you -- you are necessarily taking a position in this lawsuit because we granted cert, butthe Government made a pretty good argument essentiallythat this case wasn't ripe.MR. KNEEDLER: Well, ripe for this Court'sreview, but we now -- we now believe that, given that thedirector's letter that was sent out in September, thatthere is a basis, there's an articulation of theSecretary's position both on plan amendments and therequirement of a Medicaid-related purpose that -- thatthis Court could properly dispose of the case in the th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC narrow -- in the narrow way I suggested which, of course,would also obviate any requirement to consider theCommerce Clause question.Things have evolved in the Secretary'sevaluation of this and, as Justice O'Connor, I thinkpointed out, the Secretary has since approved a Michiganplan amendment under this same general approach.QUESTION: Thank you, Mr. Kneedler.Mr. Hagler, we'll hear from you.ORAL ARGUMENT OF ANDREW S. HAGLERON BEHALF OF THE RESPONDENTSMR. HAGLER: Mr. Chief Justice and may it pleasethe Court:People without insurance are charged more forprescription drugs than any other purchaser in the market, often much more. Patients who are forced to pay cash atthe pharmacy are those least able to absorb these highprices. To ameliorate this hardship, Maine's legislaturewill embrace a market-based approach used by other largethird party purchasers to leverage its purchasing powerunder -- as a third party purchaser in Medicaid to obtainprice relief for the uninsured in Maine.QUESTION: And you think that's one of the validuses of the authorization provision? You think that's whyit was included in the statute, so that a State could -- th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC could shake down drug companies to lower prices to otherpeople?MR. HAGLER: I concede that -- that Congressnever thought that Maine might use prior authorization inthe way that Maine Rx anticipates it. However, whatCongress said --QUESTION: You can use it for anything at all? Could -- could you use it to -- to say, we -- you know,you -- you have to pay each member of the Mainelegislature $ a year? Could -- could you put that inthere?MR. HAGLER: As you get further and further forthe purposes of -- of providing health care, you approachuses a -- of prior authorization that might offendCongress and this Court, but preemption is a question for Congress.QUESTION: Well, did Maine offer in the districtcourt, in the hearings on whether a preliminary injunctionshould issue, a justification for how the Maine Rx programbenefits Medicaid patients?MR. HAGLER: We did not so argue in the districtcourt.QUESTION: Okay.QUESTION: When you say -- who does it apply to? That is, the statute says it applies to qualified th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC residents. They define that as people with a Maine Rxenrollment card, and now I don't know who those peopleare. Is it virtually everybody in the State? Is it asmall subclass, those who don't have insurance? Who isit?MR. HAGLER: Well, it's -- it's those withoutinsurance.QUESTION: So that's a fairly small group. Whatpercentage of that -- it's percent of the people ofMaine?MR. HAGLER: If -- we estimate percent. TheAARP had a different --QUESTION: Okay, so , percent. Now, ifthat being so, it sounds to me like it could be like theone that was approved, or maybe it's not like the one that was approved.MR. HAGLER: And you don't know --QUESTION: It sounds like a case, to me, thathas to go to the Secretary, whose job it is to approve it,rather than having us fly blind.MR. HAGLER: Well, here's the difference betweenwhat the Secretary approved and what the Maine -- and --and what he's proposing with respect to Maine Rx and theplan amendments. What the Secretary approved was aprogram that's a demonstration project, a waiver program, th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC allowing more people into Medicaid notwithstanding thefact that they're ineligible.QUESTION: That has been approved for Maine?MR. HAGLER: Approved and struck down by theD.C. Circuit on Christmas Eve. The Secretary and theSolicitor General, the Secretary and the Solicitor Generalidentified the fact that that program helped people up to percent of poverty. Without the Healthy Maineprogram, the demonstration project, Maine Rx is now theonly program that helps those people.QUESTION: That isn't an answer to my question. The answer to my -- my question was, it sounds to me likea program that the Secretary might approve or might notapprove, and so why should we fly blind? Why isn't it thecase that you can't put this program into effect, given Federal law, without the approval of the Secretary?Now, when she approves it or disapproves it,they can argue about whether that was legal.MR. HAGLER: Well, the Secretary is suggestingthat the State of Maine seek a plan amendment, but bydefinition, a plan amendment allows -- a plan amendment issomething that, if we sought a plan amendment to run MaineRx it would necessarily be allowed by the Medicaidstatute. -- the Medicaid statute, section --QUESTION: I'm not following you. Is your th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC argument that --MR. HAGLER: We don't --QUESTION: -- even if the Secretary disapprovedthis, were it a plan, we still could do it? If that'syour argument, I'll answer that question. That's a legalquestion. I think it's an easy one to answer. In mymind, the answer's no. MR. HAGLER: Well, if the Secretary were to --QUESTION: Now, you can explain why it shouldn'tbe no, but I want to know if that's what I'm supposed todecide.MR. HAGLER: It's not what you're supposed todecide. The Secretary has not acted, other than speakingto this Court through the brief of the Solicitor General. The Medicaid statute provides a mechanism for the Secretary to tell the State when it is running itsMedicaid program in a fashion which violates theprovisions of the Medicaid statute. That is --QUESTION: Well, but is this actually a -- the -- the State -- the State of Maine running its Medicaidprogram, it --it's a freestanding statute, isn't it?MR. HAGLER: It's an entirely different --correct, it's an entirely different statute. We don'tbelieve we need a plan amendment to seek approval to runthe Maine Rx program. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC QUESTION: That's fine. So then you want me todecide the question of whether it would be possible tohave this statute even if the Secretary, were it anamendment to the Medicaid plan, would say no, okay? I saythat's a legal question we can decide.MR. HAGLER: But you should not decide that now.QUESTION: Is that what you think we shoulddecide now? Are you following what I'm saying or not? AmI not --MR. HAGLER: Not precisely.QUESTION: I can decide the question if theSec -- you're saying -- suppose the Secretary's approvalmakes no difference. Let us assume the Secretary woulddisapprove it.MR. HAGLER: Okay.QUESTION: There would -- a legal question, canyou have this statute anyway?MR. HAGLER: Yes.QUESTION: Okay. That's what you think weshould decide?MR. HAGLER: I believe that's what I --QUESTION: All right. If that's what you thinkwe should decide, fine, then why isn't the answer to thatquestion clearly no? You would have a Federal statute, ituses the Federal program, the Secretary thinks it's th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC contrary to the Federal program, the Secretary's views arewithin her authority, let's say, under the -- under theFederal program, and so a State cannot put something intoeffect --MR. HAGLER: Well --QUESTION: -- that is so clearly contrary to theMedicaid program using the Medicaid device. MR. HAGLER: The question that this -- the firstquestion that this Court certified was, as described inthe Secretary's brief, is whether the Federal Medicaidstatute allows the use of that authority under the statuteto compel -- the prior authorization authority --QUESTION: And I assume it --MR. HAGLER: And he says yes.QUESTION: And it would be a waste of time and money for us to send it back to the Secretary, at least ifwe are convinced on the basis of the briefs submittedhere, that even if the Secretary did approve it, thatapproval would be invalid. I mean, you would concedethat --MR. HAGLER: If the --QUESTION: -- that whatever primary jurisdictionis involved here --MR. HAGLER: If the --QUESTION: -- it certainly makes no sense to th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC send it back to the Secretary if, when the Secretaryapproves it, there is then a lawsuit and we say, oh, bythe way, he couldn't approve this.MR. HAGLER: Right.QUESTION: This goes too far. We might as welldecide that now, no?MR. HAGLER: You can decide the preemptionquestion now, and I think that the Court should, and thepreemption question is whether Congress intended toprohibit what Maine has here done.When Congress legislates against the backdrop ofthe preemption doctrine and it give -- gave to the Statethe discretion to subject to prior authorization anycovered outpatient drug, it qualified that discretionhardly at all. The only qualifications are the two provisions, the procedural safeguards that require that ifprior authorization is sought --QUESTION: Doesn't the Secretary have somediscretion in this area as to whether to say it's good orbad, the -- the Maine plan, or are you saying it's simplynot his business?MR. HAGLER: It's Congress' business --QUESTION: Well, right.MR. HAGLER: -- to set the line --QUESTION: But did Congress in what it enacted th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC leave any room for the Secretary to have some discretionhere?MR. HAGLER: What Congress enacted was theopportunity for the Secretary to tell the State that whenit's begun a program or is operating its Medicaid programout of compliance with the Medicaid statute, that itbelieves that that's the case, and the provision providesfor a fair hearing for the State, we get together with theSecretary, we try to work it out. If we can't, and if theSecretary -- if Maine persists in wanting to run theprogram, and the Secretary disapproves the program, thenhis remedy is to withhold money from the State and --QUESTION: But if-- if it's a freestandingpro -- if it's a freestanding statute, not part of Maine'sMedicaid, how can the Secretary disapprove a freestanding statute?MR. HAGLER: What he can do is look to theeffect of what happens once Maine Rx is implemented, andlook to the effect on the Medicaid beneficiaries as towhether or not they'll be harmed.QUESTION: Well, the Secretary theoreticallycould conclude already that to require prior approval forevery prescription drug will have negative effects onMedicaid recipients who otherwise would not have to seekprior approval, because there's quite a bit in the record th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC about the difficulty when prior approval must be obtained.MR. HAGLER: Oh, I submit there -- thatthere's -- I disagree with respect to the record. Ibelieve that there's very little in the record whichdemonstrates that there will be any harm to Maine Rxbeneficiaries, harm to their health, once Maine Rx isimposed, and should the State ultimately impose priorauthorizations under the Maine Rx statute.You have lodging materials which are untested. The fact of the matter is, if we were to return to thedistrict court we could demonstrate, based on a vigoroususe of prior authorization in the years that haveintervened the granting of the injunction and today, thatwe are imposing prior authorization and we are answeringthe phone in less than hours, and that Medicaid patients are, in fact, not being harmed.We -- our position is that to survive a facialchallenge the petitioner must demonstrate that any use ofprior authorization, as contemplated by the Maine Rx --QUESTION: Well, I question whether this iscorrectly described as a facial challenge. You think of afacial challenge more in terms of somebody who has a --First Amendment implications, or at least criminal lawapplications. This -- as I read the First Circuit'sopinion, although they talked about a facial challenge, I th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC thought what they were saying was, we just don't knowenough, since the thing had never gone into effect touphold the injunction.MR. HAGLER: No, and -- and what the FirstCircuit didn't know was how the program would actually beimplemented, and there are many ways of implementing theprogram that not only will not cause harm to Medicaidbeneficiaries, but which will affirmatively advance thepurposes of Medicaid.QUESTION: Is the program now in a -- beingoperated?MR. HAGLER: It is not, and the reason that it'snot is because the --QUESTION: The way you spoke, I thought you hadsome current experience.MR. HAGLER: We do have current experience withthe use of prior authorization to save Medicaid money.QUESTION: For Medicaid, for Medicaid patients.MR. HAGLER: For Medicaid, correct, and as aresult of that experience we know much more about ourabilities and would be able to describe to the districtcourt much more about our abilities should the FirstCircuit --QUESTION: Why wasn't the plan put into effectif the injunction was lifted? th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC MR. HAGLER: The mandate was stayed pending --QUESTION: Oh, I see.MR. HAGLER: -- for a writ of certiorari, sowe've -- we've not had an opportunity to implement theprogram.QUESTION: But the Federal Government, withreference to Medicaid, certainly thinks priorauthorization is an important enforcement mechanism andnow you're saying oh, don't worry about it, it doesn'tmake much difference.MR. HAGLER: Well --QUESTION: That's hard for me to accept.MR. HAGLER: Well, the Federal Government agreesthat prior authorization -- prior authorization isundeniably a cost-saving measure. That's the primary purpose why Congress permitted the States broad discretionto impose prior authorization.Under the Maine Rx program, what the State issaying to manufacturers is, please negotiate with us, andif you don't negotiate with us, we will review the drugsthat you manufacture to see and determine, on a drug-by-drug basis, whether it would be appropriate to subjectthose drugs to prior authorization.QUESTION: But the very reason you put that onthe bargaining table is because you know it's going to -- th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC it's going to slow down the sales of some of these drugs. Incidentally, I -- and you can answer that. I take itthat if Company X has different drugs, and it can'tagree with you on the rebate price for just one, that allof those drugs must have prior authorization, or am Iwrong about that?MR. HAGLER: I believe that you're wrong. Ibelieve that -- that the Secretary has the discretion --QUESTION: I read the Government's brief to thecontrary, but I'll take a look at it.MR. HAGLER: Yeah, I believe --QUESTION: You're representing that it's drug-by-drug, so a company can agree with you as to nine of thedrugs, and those will not be subject to priorauthorization, but only the tenth drug, as to which you can't agree, will be subject to prior authorization?MR. HAGLER: I believe --QUESTION: That's your representation?MR. HAGLER: As to the -- I believe that ouradministrative rules demonstrate, proposed administrativerules that the Department hasn't enacted because theinjunction has been imposed allow the Department of HumanServices of the State of Maine to look on a drug-by-drugbasis as to whether any particular drug ought to besubjected to prior -- th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC QUESTION: Does it allow it, if it uses, to lookon a company-by-company basis, as I'd first described? Inother words, does it subject --MR. HAGLER: What will happen is, if --QUESTION: -- to discretion of the State. MR. HAGLER: In other words, if Pfizer were toagree to provide a rebate for some of its drugs but notall of its drugs, must we look to the other drugs --QUESTION: Yes.MR. HAGLER: -- and determine priorauthorization? The statute contemplates a negotiation. The Commissioner is to use his best efforts to negotiatewith manufacturers in order to --QUESTION: I take that to be a yes?MR. HAGLER: The answer is yes. QUESTION: You can keep all of their drugs offunless they give you what you want for some of them?MR. HAGLER: We could, but the statute alsoallows us not to.QUESTION: Yeah.MR. HAGLER: The purpose of that --QUESTION: You could, that's -- and -- and yousay it -- that the statute envisions using thisauthorization as a cost-saving measure. Does this saveany costs -- does this statute save any cost to the th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC Medicare recipients?MR. HAGLER: To the Medicare?QUESTION: To -- to the Medicaid --MR. HAGLER: Oh, the Medicaid recipients, theMedicaid recipients themselves pay nothing, but it cansave money in, and it's probable that it will save moneyin the Medicaid program, and the reason for that --QUESTION: I understand, because some peoplewon't come into the program who otherwise would come in.MR. HAGLER: Well, that's what the First Circuitpicked up on, but the other reason and the other method inwhich it would save Medicaid money is, it would result inshifting prescribing behavior from more expensive drugs toless expensive drugs. The Commissioner, undersubsection --QUESTION: But doesn't that depend on who youmake the deals with? Maybe the more expensive drug --drugs we're willing to make this deal with you, and theless expensive not willing.MR. HAGLER: Subsection of the Maine Rxstatute gives to the Commissioner the discretion to runthe Medicaid program and the Maine Rx program in acoordinated manner so as to enhance efficiencies in both,and so I believe that the Commissioner would never imposeprior authorization on the cheapest drug in a therapeutic th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC class even if that manufacturer didn't provide a Maine Rxrebate, because it would be silly to do so. He's got abudget to operate.QUESTION: I've known some silly administrators.(Laughter.)QUESTION: The point is, he could do it. Thepoint is, he could -- you're - you're -- you're -- you'retroubled by a -- by a statute which would allow a denialof authorization unless the drug company pays $ to eachmember of the -- of the legislature. I -- I gather you -- you acknowledge that -- that the authorizationrequirement in the statute has some unstated limitationupon it, or don't you acknowledge that?MR. HAGLER: I believe that -- that under theCourt's preemption analysis we look to the primary purposes of the Medicaid statute and you seek to determinewhat Congress intended.QUESTION: Does the authorization provision havesome unstated limitation upon it, a limitation that is notin that sole provision alone?MR. HAGLER: I believe that it doesn't, but evenif it does --QUESTION: It doesn't, so $ to eachlegislator is okay?MR. HAGLER: And -- and -- and when that offends th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC Congress, Congress has the ability to act.QUESTION: The real question is whether it hasan unstated limitation that's sufficiently clear that itpreempts the State law.MR. HAGLER: I'm sorry.QUESTION: The real question is whether theunstated limitation is sufficiently clear to be preemptiveof a State statute to the contrary.MR. HAGLER: That's -- that's correct.QUESTION: Well, how is Congress --MR. HAGLER: The language of the statute is, aState may subject to prior authorization any coveredoutpatient drug.QUESTION: Well, how could Congress --MR. HAGLER: Every --QUESTION: Sorry. No, go ahead. Finish,please.MR. HAGLER: Indeed, every outpatient drug couldbe subjected to prior authorization. That, too, would besilly, but the power is that broad.QUESTION: Now, that's what I want to know. Why? I mean, how could Congress possibly want a statutewhich would hurt the Medicaid patients at -- no argumentit wouldn't hurt some of them, and has nothing to be saidfor helping anyone related to Medicaid? th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC MR. HAGLER: Well, we -- we disagree that --QUESTION: I know you disagree about whetherthat's the effect.MR. HAGLER: -- that it will not hurt people.QUESTION: I understand that.MR. HAGLER: Right.QUESTION: So how can I decide this case withoutknowing whether the people in charge of the statute agreewith you about that, as they might, or you might negotiatesome implementation of how to have regulations that theycan agree to, or, or, or, the possibilities are endless. How can I decide in your favor, in other words, withoutknowing, the same question, what the Secretary thinks?MR. HAGLER: Because the Secretary can act ifthe injunction -- if the First Circuit's decision is affirmed, the Secretary can act, and tell the State ofMaine we believe that you will harm Medicaid beneficiariesand we will take your money away.QUESTION: But suppose --MR. HAGLER: But the Secretary hasn't acted. The Secretary has asked this Court to approve his notionsof what Maine Rx might look like if it were more limitedin scope in terms of the number of beneficiaries, but hehasn't defined for the Court how to set the line.QUESTION: Suppose the State passes a law that th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC says that each Medicaid beneficiary shall pay anadditional tax of $ a year. You say that the only wayto get rid of that law, which would certainly contravenethe -- the whole purpose of Medicaid. The only way to getrid of it is to go to the Secretary and say, since thislaw is an amendment of the State's plan, you shouldapprove it, it requires your approval.MR. HAGLER: Now, there --QUESTION: They couldn't strike that down asjust being contrary to the --MR. HAGLER: No, it's contrary to the statute.QUESTION: Okay.MR. HAGLER: Medicaid beneficiaries can't berequired to pay more than a nominal co-pay.QUESTION: Okay, so --MR. HAGLER: Congress thought --QUESTION: So the only remedy for something thatis contrary to the statute is not going through theSecretary, that some things that are contrary to thestatute can be attacked directly, as is being done here.MR. HAGLER: But -- but I'm not convinced thatfrom the text of the statute you can find an intent --QUESTION: Okay. That's a different question.MR. HAGLER: -- on the part of Congress toprohibit this, and even if it were to -- Congress were to th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC prohibit using Maine Rx like prior authorizations for somepurpose wholly unrelated to health care, when you getcloser and closer to something approaching what theSecretary in fact does approve of, how can a court set theline? The question really is --QUESTION: That's the merits question, ratherthan whether we have, you know, power to -- to move atall, so long as the Secretary can handle the problem bydenying approval.MR. HAGLER: The Secretary has indicated thathe'll handle the problem, or he's expressed his viewsabout what the program is. The Court should wait to seewhether the -- I mean, the Court should allow theSecretary to --QUESTION: Can I ask you this question: Ithought you would agree that, if it were clear as a matterof fact that this program was going to harm Medicaidrecipients, that we would have power to enjoin theprogram?MR. HAGLER: Yes, but it's not -- I do agreewith that.QUESTION: So your argument, as I understand it,it's an unresolved factual question whether, in fact,these adverse consequences would follow?MR. HAGLER: That's correct. We have -- there's th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC no facts in the record, and -- and this -- this is afacial challenge in which my colleague has to demonstratethat they are in no way -- there's no possibility ofimplementing the program in a way which doesn't cause harmto --QUESTION: Well, I may not agree with thatstatement, but at least they have to make a showing therein fact will be an adverse effect.MR. HAGLER: Some showing.QUESTION: Yes.MR. HAGLER: And the only showing that thedistrict court seized upon is this notion that, bydefinition, prior authorization imposes some sort ofprocedural impediment to free access to all drugs onbehalf of Medicaid patients, but the --QUESTION: I thought you -- I thought you hadacknowledged that the authorization requirement must notmerely not harm Medicaid recipients, but that theauthorization must serve the purpose of helping Medicaidrecipients. Don't -- don't -- don't you acknowledge that?MR. HAGLER: Our --QUESTION: You were saying it does help them,you know, and you're mentioning the ways in which it helpsthe Medicaid program.MR. HAGLER: Under either test we think we win. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC Under the first test, the question should be, did Congressintend to prohibit what Maine has here done? If thequestion is, does the Maine Rx program advance thepurposes of Medicaid --QUESTION: Right.MR. HAGLER: -- it assuredly does that.QUESTION: But you don't think that's necessary?MR. HAGLER: I'm -- I'm not convinced thatthat's necessary.QUESTION: Okay.MR. HAGLER: But even if it were necessary,there's -- the -- the facts in the record, and thereasonable expectation of how the program will work willyield Medicaid cost savings both by imposing priorauthorization on drugs that are more expensive than their therapeutic equivalents, and also by making Maine --allowing people without insurance in the State of Maine topurchase their prescription drugs and become less likelyto become disabled and financially eligible for Medicaid.QUESTION: Of the proposed regulations, isanything published? There was nothing before either courtabout how this would be implemented, was there?MR. HAGLER: There were proposed regulations. They are in the appendix. They have not been promulgated. They were drafted, and they're -- th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC QUESTION: Before the district court?MR. HAGLER: Yes. They were handed up to thedistrict court, and they -- they should be in the courtfile. They -- they are found on page of the appendix,and that provision describes how Maine will go aboutreviewing the drugs for prior authorization. If amanufacturer refuses to participate in -- in a Maine Rxnegotiation, then the Commissioner will hand a list of --of that manufacturer's drugs to a committee of physiciansand pharmacists who will determine whether it's clinicallyappropriate to subject those drugs to prior authorization,guided constantly by the principle that the purpose ofMedicaid is to provide necessary medical assistance tothose in need.QUESTION: Thank you, Mr. Hagler. Mr. Phillips, you have minutes remaining.REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF CARTER G. PHILLIPSON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONERMR. PHILLIPS: Thank you, Mr. Chief Justice.Justice Stevens, I want to focus on thenarrowest basis on which this case can be decided, whichis, we have a preliminary injunction that was issued bythe district court. A preliminary injunction was issuedon the basis of two bases, ) the State has not putforward any Medicaid-related purpose to be served by Maine th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC Rx, and ) that no matter how you want to define it, thereis an obstacle to the full achievement of the recipient'sprimary interest of receiving medicine.As I said, there's a clear debate as to exactlythe extent of the obstacle, but that there could be noquestion that there is an obstacle, and it seems to methat what this Court can do is simply say, those twofindings are not an abuse of discretion on the record inthis particular case, therefore there is a basis foraffirming.If the Court wants to go further from that andsay, on remand, some guidance might be useful from theSecretary of HHS and propose some mechanism by which tohave primary jurisdiction or some other mechanism devisedby which to obtain the review by the Secretary, I think there's probably no problem with that and, as I saidbefore, I can't imagine that we would have any complaintabout that, but the importance of this is to -- is toretain the injunction in place so that the unquestionedharms that are going to happen are not allowed to takeplace, and then try to undo them after the fact, which wasthe reason for issuing the injunction.QUESTION: A brief question, I don't -- I'mworried about your time, but is it inconceivable to saythat there was no showing at the time of the preliminary th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC injunction hearing but now they -- Maine says they canmake the showing that they should have made before. Should the judge not listen to that?MR. PHILLIPS: Well, I think when you get pastthe preliminary injunction and you move on to thepermanent injunction, if they think that they can show noburden whatsoever, or if they think they can show thatthere are greater purposes to be served, that's certainlyavailable to them. But on an abuse of discretion standardthis Court ought to affirm that, and nothing that theFirst Circuit said justifies taking any action in thisparticular case.If there are no other questions --CHIEF JUSTICE REHNQUIST: Thank you, Mr.Phillips. The case is submitted.(Whereupon, at : p.m., the case in theabove-entitled matter was submitted.) th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC 