 IN THE SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -XABU-ALI ABDUR' RAHMAN, Petitioner ::v. : No. -RICKY BELL, WARDEN :- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -XWashington, D.C.Wednesday, November , The above-entitled matter came on for oralargument before the Supreme Court of the United States at: a.m.APPEARANCES:JAMES S. LIEBMAN, ESQ., New York, New York; on behalf ofthe Petitioner.PAUL G. SUMMERS, ESQ., Attorney General, Nashville,Tennessee; on behalf of the Respondent.PAUL J. ZIDLICKY, ESQ., Washington, D.C.; on behalf of amici curiae, State of Alabama, et al. C O N T E N T SORAL ARGUMENT OF JAMES S. LIEBMAN, ESQ.On behalf of the Petitioner ORAL ARGUMENT OFPAUL G. SUMMERS, ESQ.On behalf of the Respondent ORAL ARGUMENT OFPAUL J. ZIDLICKY, ESQ.PAGEOn behalf of amici curiae, State of Alabama, et al. REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OFJAMES S. LIEBMAN, ESQ.On behalf of the Petitioner P R O C E E D I N G S(: a.m.)CHIEF JUSTICE REHNQUIST: We'll hear argumentnext in Number -, Abu-Ali Abdur' Rahman versus RickyBell.Mr. Liebman. I think the Court would like tohear argument on the questions we asked for supplementalbriefing on, as well as your original petition.ORAL ARGUMENT OF JAMES S. LIEBMANON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONERMR. LIEBMAN: Okay. Mr. Chief Justice, and mayit please the Court:The question I'd like to take up first is why,in our view, the unusual circumstances of this casesatisfy the two sets of demanding requirements that are on the petitioner here to succeed: ) he has to show thatthis is not a successive petition, and ) he thenadditionally has to get over the high hurdle that (b)imposes.Let me, though, go first to the jurisdictionalquestions that Your Honor referred to. This case was inthe court of appeals in three ways. It was there becauseMr. -- the petitioner here went into the district courtand he said, here's my (b) motion, I'd like to get (b)relief. The district court -- and this is on pages through of the record, of the joint appendix -- saidvery, very clearly that it was going to make two rulings. First it said, this is not a Rule (b) motion, it issomething else, it's a successive petition. Because it'sa successive petition, you cannot get (b) relief in thiscourt, and I'm going to refer or --QUESTION: That's the district court judge?MR. LIEBMAN: Right. What I -- but what thatdid, Your Honor, was to establish a final disposition. Itterminated all of the petitioner's rights under (b). There were no rights left. He told the district court --QUESTION: Couldn't he have moved to -- in theSixth Circuit -- to remand the case if he disagreed withthat?MR. LIEBMAN: He did. He did, Your Honor.QUESTION: Well, but that means that thedistrict court's decision was not final.MR. LIEBMAN: Well, it was final for purposes ofthe (b), because the -- for purposes of the districtcourt's view there could be, would be, never could be any(b) relief.QUESTION: But it wasn't a final judgment in thesense that an appeal could be sought from that, because itwas transferred. The district court judge transferred it. He didn't dismiss the (b) motion, which I would havethought the district court might have done, and then itperhaps could have been appealable.MR. LIEBMAN: Well, Your Honor, all of that'sright, and if the belts don't work, let's go to thesuspenders. He -- the case was transferred to the courtof appeals. The court of appeals, however, could not takejurisdiction over the case unless the prerequisite for itsjurisdiction was established, and if you look at(b)(), which is in our appendix to our brief atpage a --QUESTION: Page a of the blue brief?MR. LIEBMAN: a of the blue brief, it's veryclear under (b)()(A) that it has to be a second orsuccessive application before the court of appeals has any jurisdiction to do anything with it, so its jurisdictionturns on the question whether it was a successive petitionor not. If it wasn't one, it could not act under thisstatute and would have to remand back to the districtcourt. That's exactly what happened in the Martinez-Villareal case.QUESTION: Well, what -- what does the statute,the AEDPA statute contemplate? That somebody in thisdefendant's position could have applied to the court ofappeals for permission to file a successive petition? Could that have been done here?MR. LIEBMAN: Yes.QUESTION: That was not done?MR. LIEBMAN: It was not done here because hewas saying all along this was not a successive petition,if it was, he would not satisfy it. He --QUESTION: Go ahead.MR. LIEBMAN: He was saying that he did satisfythe requirements of (b), that the statute recognizes adifference between certain --QUESTION: Well, then, to get an appeal onthat -- it sounds so complicated, because the law hasgotten so complicated with AEDPA, but maybe he should havesought transfer back to the district court so the districtcourt could dismiss it and give something from which an appeal could be taken.MR. LIEBMAN: Oh but, Your Honor, in Martinez-Villareal, I think it's very clear this case is exactlythe same as Martinez-Villareal, which this Court ruledexpressly on the -- the first question it took up was thejurisdictional question. What happened there is that thepetitioner went to the district court, the district courtsaid, this is a successive petition, I'm transferring, youcan't be in this court.He then took an appeal, and he went up on a transfer saying, okay, you've got the transferred motionin front of you.The court of appeals actually dismissed theappeal saying, we don't have that, but it decided in thecontext of the transfer -- and this is very standardprocedure here now under AEDPA -- it decided, firstquestion first, do we have jurisdiction, and it said, youknow what, we figured out that we don't have jurisdictionbecause this is not a successive petition, so we remandback to the district court.This Court then took cert on that question, andthe first question it asked was, do we have cert herebecause of subsection (e) here, and it said, we do havecert here because (e) is very clear. The grant or denialof authorization can't come to the Court.QUESTION: Well, let's go back to ()(A) for aminute, Mr. Liebman. It says -- as you point out --before a second or successive application permitted bythis section is filed in the district court. You say allof that is a prerequisite, I take it, for the court ofappeals acting, but supposing it's a second or successiveapplication that is not permitted by this section. Thatwouldn't deprive the court of appeals of the jurisdictionto say no, would it?MR. LIEBMAN: Absolutely. In fact, it has the obligation, not just the jurisdiction, to decide whetherit is a successive petition, because if it isn't, it can'tdecide the case, because then it's got to start with thedistrict --QUESTION: Well, but -- so then the first,the -- the first clause of ()(A) is not really, strictlyspeaking, entirely jurisdictional.MR. LIEBMAN: Oh, well I -- I'm not actuallysure it's the first clause. It says that the applicantshall move in the appropriate court for an orderauthorizing that. That's what essentially gives the courtthe jurisdiction, but it's got to be for an orderauthorizing what qualifies under the statute as a secondand successive application. This was not a second andsuccessive application. Therefore, as in Martinez-Villareal --QUESTION: Well, that's, of course, part of theissue in the case.MR. LIEBMAN: Right, but that -- his positionwas it was not, and therefore the court needed to dismissthat case, and it had two options at that point. It couldeither remand it back, which is the majority approach, orit could simply have dismissed, and then he could havegone back and filed in the district court again, which iswhat a few courts do. QUESTION: Mr. Liebman, initially in this case,when the district judge transferred -- I think it got oneon the State's recommendation that that's how you handlethese cases. On behalf of the defendant, did anyone eversay, please enter judgment against me under (b), I wantto make this -- test whether this is a (b) case or ahabeas case?MR. LIEBMAN: That did not happen, Your Honor,although petitioner understood the court's decision, ifyou look on pages and , to say this -- it expresslysays, you cannot file (b) here in this court becauseit's automatically successive. You cannot do it. Youwill never get any rights under (b).QUESTION: But he could have asked to test that. He could have said, please don't transfer.MR. LIEBMAN: He could have, but in -- YourHonor, in the Martinez-Villareal case, there was no suchquestion, no -- no --QUESTION: -- see what Martinez-Real has to dowith it. I may be missing it, but I thought that in -- inthis case, the reason that you cannot appeal from thecourt of appeals order refusing to give you permission tofile a second habeas is because there's a statute thatsays you can't come to this court when a court of appealsrefuses to give permission on second habeas, and none of that was involved, to my knowledge, in Martinez-Real.MR. LIEBMAN: Oh, yes --QUESTION: That was a question about whether ornot there was a premature decision, or whatever it was,and they sent -- the court of appeals sent it back foradjudication on this issue.MR. LIEBMAN: No, Your Honor.QUESTION: No, it's -- I'm not right?MR. LIEBMAN: The provision (e) here says thatthe grant or denial of an authorization cannot come up tothe Court on cert, so the fact that the court there in --QUESTION: You mean, Martinez-Real was a grantof a petition for second or successive?MR. LIEBMAN: No. It was --QUESTION: Well, then, what has that statute to do with it?MR. LIEBMAN: What it said was -- and this iswhat the Court said in Martinez-Villareal quite clearly. There's a threshold question. The threshold question is,do we have in front of us a second or successive petition.QUESTION: In Martinez-Real?MR. LIEBMAN: Yes. Yes, yes, yes. That was thequestion there, because Martinez-Villareal filed a requestto --QUESTION: And what did the court of appeals say was the answer?MR. LIEBMAN: It said, the answer is, this isnot a second or successive petition.QUESTION: Fine, so then the statute doesn'tapply, I guess --MR. LIEBMAN: Oh -- but here the court said --if I can be clear about this -- the court said two things,and it said them actually in different orders. January order, it said, this is a successive petition, so nowwe've got to go to the gateway question of whether you canget into court. And then a couple of weeks later,actually almost a month later, February , it said, youdon't meet the gateway requirement.QUESTION: I -- I just don't see how you getaround the statute that says that you can't come here after a court of appeals either grants or denies thesecond or successive.MR. LIEBMAN: Well, that's what I'm --QUESTION: Which wasn't at issue, I take it, inthe other case.MR. LIEBMAN: That's what I'm trying to say. The very first thing that our cert petition says in thiscase is, we are not asking for cert from the question ofwhether or not we meet the gateway requirement.QUESTION: Yes, but you -- one doesn't really ask for cert from -- from a question. One asks for certto review an order, and the order of the court of appealsis an order granting or denying.MR. LIEBMAN: This order had multiple parts,Your Honor. It was actually divided up into multipleparts, and what he said was, we are asking for cert fromsome parts of the order, segmented out and givenparagraphs. We are not asking for cert from other partsof that decision.QUESTION: But I think the question is whetheryou can ask for cert for any -- from any -- part of it inview of the provision of the statute that it's not -- Ijust don't -- I'm not sure you can bifurcate the order andsay, we're not challenging the denial, we're challenging,in effect, the reason for the denial.MR. LIEBMAN: Well, this was not a denial. Whatthe statute says -- and I think that's really important --is the grant -- I'm reading (e), as we go over from ()(A)to ()(A). The grant or denial of an authorization by acourt of appeals to file a second or successiveapplication shall not be appealable, but he was notappealing the grant or denial. He was appealing thepreliminary question whether it even was, whether thecourt even could have taken jurisdiction of that becauseit had a second or successive -- QUESTION: That's not a judgment. You -- youappeal judgments, you appeal orders, you appealdispositions of the lower court. You -- you don't appealstatements or -- or expressions. You -- you appealdispositions. The only disposition here was the denial ofthe -- of the application.MR. LIEBMAN: Well, Your Honor, then let me goto the garter if the belts and suspenders haven't workedhere. Petitioner filed a motion in the court of appealson his original appeal, and he said, in this appeal, whatwe would like you to do is, rather than issuing themandate on the judgment that you issued before, which wentup on cert, we would like you to remand this case in orderfor the court below to take up these issues, whether on(b) or in other ways, and the court denied that motion. It didn't say why, but it denied that motionwithout, expressly in regard to that, doing any kind ofgatewaying. It just said, we deny it.Now, it gives the reason in the earlier January order that it thought that any post judgment motion inone of these cases was automatically successive, andthat's our first question --QUESTION: All right, but --MR. LIEBMAN: -- which is, that was a mistake --QUESTION: -- on that -- now, this will get to the merits, which I'm sure you'd like to get to --MR. LIEBMAN: Yes.QUESTION: -- but I thought that the argumentthat what the court of appeals did was right is roughlythe following, that what your client should have done, orthe way it should have worked is that the district courtinitially dismissed -- dismissed on the ground that therewas a procedural default -- his initial parts of theinitial petition, because, said the district court, hedidn't exhaust those, and he can't do it now because thetime is up, and your client never appealed that rulingin -- the first time.What he should have done is appealed it. Then,when he asked for cert and the Tennessee statement camedown, he would simply have amended his cert petition and allowed us to GVR in light of our case in Tennessee, buthe couldn't do that, because he hadn't appealed that inthe first place, and therefore he had a final ruling, afinal judgment against him on that issue, and -- andthat's why -- that's why what the court of appeals did wasright, and that's also why it really is a second andsuccessive, because after all, you -- it's -- you want adistrict judge to reopen a judgment where he made amistake but you didn't appeal it.MR. LIEBMAN: Your Honor, you're absolutely right, the premise, which is that Rule (b) or relatedmotions in the court of appeals cannot be used to fill theoffice of an appeal, but there's a very establisheddoctrine there. It came up in the Muniz case, in theBlackmon v. Money remand that this Court made, and thequestion there is whether it was reasonably available tohim at that moment to make an appeal. If it was, (b)doesn't come into play, and that's perhaps the mostimportant question in this case.As of the time Mr. Abdur' Rahman filed hisbrief, his first brief, opening brief in the Tennessee --I mean, in the Sixth Circuit on August , , thisCourt's O'Sullivan decision had come down two monthsearlier. O'Sullivan read a rule of Illinois procedureestablishing a discretionary review process that is identical in terms. The State of Alabama has actuallygone through the terms in its brief and shown that they'reidentical.This Court said, and I quote, without more,those words are not sufficient to tell us that thatdiscretionary procedure is outside the ordinary post-conviction review process in that State. In this State ofTennessee at the time, there was that rule, identical tothe rule in O'Sullivan, and nothing more in the law. Infact, the State concedes in its brief that there was nothing in Tennessee law at the time besides the rule.So it was not available to him at that point forthe very reason that if he had made that argument, itwould have been a frivolous argument because it would haverun foursquare into the precise holding of a decision ofthis Court but two months before. It was only when Rule came down after the appeal was over, while the case wason cert, that it said no, no, no, no, the law of Tennesseehas been since that our discretionary reviewprocedure in Rule has never been part of the regularand routine State post-conviction review process that wehave --QUESTION: Mr. Liebman, we've decided a coupleof cases, one about years ago, Harris against Nelson,and then another case called Pitchess, in maybe -- that indicate that the Federal Rules of Civil Procedure, andparticularly (b), do not apply if they conflict at allwith the habeas regulations. Now, you don't citeeither -- either of those cases in your brief.MR. LIEBMAN: Yes, we do. We cite --QUESTION: I'm sorry. I --MR. LIEBMAN: We cite both of them on --QUESTION: I didn't see them in the index.MR. LIEBMAN: Well, I believe that they arecited in our -- well, I guess you're right. I thought we had cited them in the reply brief, but we make referenceto them where we point out, if I can find it here -- yes,we do, Your Honor. On page of our reply brief, theyellow brief, we cite Pitchess and Browder.QUESTION: You didn't cite them in your openingbrief.MR. LIEBMAN: We didn't. The State raised them,and we responded to them, and the point is that weactually think that Martinez-Villareal and Slack stand ontop of Pitchess and Browder, so that they were obviouslydecided in that same context, and so we cited the morerecent case, but in any event in our reply brief, what wepoint out is, this Court has been very clear to say, isthere a conflict between a Federal Rule of Civil Procedureand the habeas jurisprudence?If so, the civil rule doesn't apply. If not, itdoes apply, and as almost all of the courts of appealshave held, there are certain very limited circumstanceswhen a (b) motion does not interfere with the policiesof the habeas jurisprudence, and in those limited numberof cases, which includes this one, it is appropriate touse (b).QUESTION: Well, I thought the Second Circuitwas the only case that really supported you --MR. LIEBMAN: Oh, no. QUESTION: -- in this area as to whether a (b)rule can be used as a substitute.MR. LIEBMAN: No, Your Honor. We don't at allstand on the Second Circuit approach to this. Themajority rule is that it is a case-by-case analysis. It's -- for example -- the Dunlap case where Judge Posnerrecently cited all of the lower court opinions, and whathe said was, the majority rule is that you have to look. You have to say, is this the kind of (b) that avoids theproblems that successive petitions are -- cause that wehave a rule for? If they do, decide the (b) motion. Ifnot --QUESTION: How -- how long after the districtcourt ruled that your claims were not -- not exhausted,how much time elapsed between then and the time you filed your Rule motion?MR. LIEBMAN: We filed the Rule --QUESTION: -/ years, wasn't it?MR. LIEBMAN: But it was the key point --QUESTION: Just answer my question.MR. LIEBMAN: Yes. Yes. Yes, Your Honor --QUESTION: It was -/ years?MR. LIEBMAN: -- I think -/ years is theright -- but the reason is that the trigger for the (b)motion did not come down until June . QUESTION: That's true, but the -- now I'mthinking, when I read the Sixth Circuit's opinion again,they're not really saying anything different. I thinkthey must mean -- I grant you it can be read either way,but I can't believe that they mean every (b) motion nomatter what is second or successive.It seems to have arisen in cases where they hadgood reason to think that the (b) motion in that casewas second or successive, as in your case they are lookingat the (b) motion as a substitute for a new petition forthe reason that it was dismissed the first time as aprocedural default, which is the end of this matter.MR. LIEBMAN: Well --QUESTION: And you didn't appeal it. Rather,for whatever set of reasons, you wait -- I mean, not saying it was your fault, but you wait and go back and dothis other thing.MR. LIEBMAN: Well, Your Honor, two points.QUESTION: So is there -- is there really aminority rule at all?MR. LIEBMAN: Well --QUESTION: Is there some court that really meantit, that no matter what, (b) is always second orsuccessive?MR. LIEBMAN: That is the argument that the State made here, and it's what the district court said,and I can tell you the district court believed it, but itdoesn't matter here. I don't want to get off on that,because we think that whatever the rule ought to be, thisis the kind of (b) motion that is not successive for tworeasons.First of all, it is -- it relies upon legal andfactual issues that are entirely within the four cornersof the original proceeding. There's nothing new here. The law, the facts, the evidence, everything is the same.Secondly, so that means you're not gettingout --QUESTION: Well, the law's new. I mean, that'syour whole point.MR. LIEBMAN: Well, but it isn't new, Your Honor. It was a declaration of the law as it existed allthe way back in .QUESTION: Well, all right, I'll --MR. LIEBMAN: But it's like the Fiore case, YourHonor, where the Pennsylvania Supreme Court said yes, wecame down with this interpretation of the State statute,and it's true the lower courts had all seen it differentlyup to that point, but we were telling you what the statutemeant all the way back, and this Court treated it as,quote, old law. QUESTION: But then you said you didn't need toput it in your -- make a cross-appeal of it because youdidn't think it was a tenable argument, so you can't -- Idon't -- I don't see how you could have it both ways, tosay it was the law all along, but we didn't have to saythat that was the law because O'Sullivan --MR. LIEBMAN: Well, because --QUESTION: -- hadn't come down, or had just comedown.MR. LIEBMAN: Well, Your Honor, what O'Sullivansays is, if there is a clear statement of law by Statelaw, by rule or decision that says -- as the SouthCarolina-Arizona provisions cited in this paragraph say --that this particular discretionary review procedure,quote, is not available, then the Supreme Court and the Federal courts will respect it, but otherwise, ifwe don't know what the law is, or it's not clear, thenwe don't need to respect it, so that was --QUESTION: But the appellate -- the appellatebrief in this case, the brief in the Sixth Circuit, whenthe -- when the prosecutor was appealing on theineffective assistance of counsel, that was filed beforeO'Sullivan came down, wasn't it?MR. LIEBMAN: The State's brief was filedbefore, petitioner's brief filed after. QUESTION: But the point at which you could havefiled a cross-appeal was before.MR. LIEBMAN: Oh, Your Honor, that's a veryimportant point. In our certificate of probable cause toappeal we asked the district judge, starting with point ,the prosecutorial misconduct claims and the proceduraldefault ruling on them is what we want to take up to thecourt of appeals on our appeal, and the district courtgranted a CPC -- a certificate of probable cause -- onthat ground, so that was in the case, it was in theappeal, and it was specifically in the mind -- well, itwas on the paper that this was the issue that the cross-appeal was going to be focused on.QUESTION: I thought you didn't appeal. Ithought you did not appeal the first time -- we're back in the year , or early .MR. LIEBMAN: ', actually.QUESTION: '?MR. LIEBMAN: Yes.QUESTION: All right. At that time I thoughtyou did not appeal the district court's ruling that youhad procedurally defaulted because you hadn't exhaustedclaims X, Y, and Z, and the time had run.MR. LIEBMAN: Well, all I would say --QUESTION: Am I right about that? MR. LIEBMAN: You're right, but they were in thecertificate of probable cause, which is -- you have to getthat first, but of course the court of appeals doesn'treach your certificate of probable cause.QUESTION: No, no, so I don't see how that helpsyou.MR. LIEBMAN: Well, I'm just saying -- well, itdoes help in this sense, Your Honor, I think, which isthat until O'Sullivan came down and removed the argumentthat petitioner thought he had, he was planning to raiseit, but when O'Sullivan came down, after the CPC, butbefore he actually got to file his brief, now suddenlythe claim that he wanted to raise looked frivolous,because there was not a declaration of State law on thepoint.There came to be a declaration of State law, andwhen it came sua sponte, it happened to say, because thecourt in Tennessee believed that this to be -- was thecase -- that the law of Tennessee has always been since that this was never part of the post-convictionreview process, so --QUESTION: Hasn't the Sixth Circuit had anopinion on that subject as to whether the rule promulgatedby the Tennessee Supreme Court was a change, or was itnot? MR. LIEBMAN: No, it has not. The issue ispercolating in the lower courts and in the Sixth Circuit,but it has not ruled yet.QUESTION: But isn't the --QUESTION: The Sixth Circuit did -- the SixthCircuit had held before in a case arising out of Kentuckythat if you don't go to the top court, you have notexhausted.MR. LIEBMAN: They said that in Kentucky basedupon a Kentucky Supreme Court decision in .QUESTION: Right.MR. LIEBMAN: After that point, there are fiveor six decisions of the Sixth Circuit saying that failureto exhaust that remedy is failure to exhaust. There is nosimilar decision in Tennessee at all in the court of appeals before O'Sullivan came down, because theunderstanding of practice there, and I know because Ipracticed there at that time, was that this didn't need tobe exhausted.QUESTION: All right, so isn't the right way todo this, if you were writing it from scratch, we have thestatute, you simply say, look, this is what second andsuccessives are for. When the law changes just in themiddle of the case, bring a second and successive. That'sthe rare case where it should be allowed. MR. LIEBMAN: The law did not change.QUESTION: I mean, I don't --QUESTION: But I mean what happened to you. Isn't that the case that they're there for?MR. LIEBMAN: This -- the second and successiveis designed to avoid every change in the law being thebasis for a habeas petition, but this is not a change inthe law. It's exactly -- every petitioner literallyargued that not only is this discretionary, so it shouldnot be exhausted, but he also said the nature of thisdiscretionary process shouldn't be exhausted because it'sdifferent from post-conviction.QUESTION: Well, may I ask you one morequestion? If it had merely been a change in Tennesseelaw, that would not have been a predicate for a second and successive habeas, would it?MR. LIEBMAN: Absolutely. If it is a changeof law, it's preempted by the terms of the successivestatute which says, we've got a rule here for changes inthe law, but that's why this isn't successive, becausethis is not a change in the law, it's within the fourcorners --QUESTION: But doesn't that foreclose you,because when you're -- if it's not second and successiveas defined by AEDPA, that means those are the only kind you can bring?MR. LIEBMAN: No, Your Honor --QUESTION: Not that you can pull something elsein under Rule .MR. LIEBMAN: No, Your Honor.QUESTION: No --MR. LIEBMAN: The State agrees if it's fraud,if -- Martinez-Villareal, where you've got some Statecourt decision that changes everything --QUESTION: Well --MR. LIEBMAN: -- it's got to be --QUESTION: -- are you suggesting there was fraudhere?MR. LIEBMAN: No, no, no, I'm saying, YourHonor, that there are certain circumstances where something that is literally second in time does notqualify as a second or successive petition that triggers, and so we need to know what that is, and the twostandards are when it is within the four corners of thefirst petition and it completely undermines --QUESTION: Now, what's -- what's the authorityfor that statement?MR. LIEBMAN: The authority is Martinez-Villareal, Slack, and Calderon, and a huge body of lowercourt law that establishes those very, very narrow circumstances where it's so tied into the first petitionbecause it's the same facts, and it so undermines thatfirst judgment that there's no judgment left, that youneed something to substitute for it, but you don't have asuccessive petition.QUESTION: Thank you, Mr. Liebman. I take ityou're reserving your time?MR. LIEBMAN: Yes, I am.QUESTION: General Summers.ORAL ARGUMENT OF PAUL G. SUMMERSON BEHALF OF THE RESPONDENTGENERAL SUMMERS: Thank you, Mr. Chief Justice,and may it please the Court:This Court lacks jurisdiction of this case andthe writ should be dismissed, but if this Court concludes that it does have jurisdiction, then the alleged (b)motion was a prohibited second or successive applicationbecause it attempted to revisit a prior final adjudicationbased upon alleged error of fact or law.Turning to the jurisdictional issue, the courtof appeals did not have jurisdiction to review thetransfer order. The transfer order was not a final order. It had no jurisdiction in the district court. Thedistrict court had no jurisdiction over the -- over themotion because it considered it as what it was. It was a second or successive application.QUESTION: Doesn't the jurisdictional issuereally turn on whether or not it was a second orsuccessive?GENERAL SUMMERS: No, Your Honor, it does not. Under the gatekeeping authority of (b)() of AEDPA,then the sold province as to determine whether or not asecond or successive application should be granted orshould be denied is in the province of the Sixth Circuit.QUESTION: But is it strictly in the province ofthe Sixth Circuit to determine that what it has before itis a request for something that should be called a secondor successive petition within the meaning of the statute? If it is, they've got the final word, but whether it is isa separate question.GENERAL SUMMERS: Your Honor, our position isthat you can't separate these two functions. Under AEDPA,and under the clear enactment of Congress, when Congressgave the court of appeals the exclusive and solejurisdiction as to whether or not a -- an application orleave for application for a second or successive should begranted or denied, it also gave them the exclusiveauthority to determine whether it was --QUESTION: Well, it didn't do so in so manywords. I mean, is your argument that if we split this question into a) jurisdictional fact, b) the authority ofthe court if the jurisdictional fact is present, if wesplit those two questions that there's going to beconstant litigation over the jurisdictional fact, andthat's why we ought to read the statute your way, or isthere some point of text that is not occurring to me thatsupports you?GENERAL SUMMERS: Absolutely, Your Honor.QUESTION: Well, it's one or the other.GENERAL SUMMERS: Well --(Laughter.)QUESTION: Is it text or policy?GENERAL SUMMERS: It's the first one, YourHonor.QUESTION: Okay.GENERAL SUMMERS: If you were to split those twodecisions that the court of appeal has jurisdiction over,then there would be a proliferation of appeal of thatfirst predicate decision. The decision, the first --QUESTION: Well, is it going to be -- I mean, isit going to be a difficult question in most cases? Imean, this is an extraordinary case. You can see how thejurisdictional fact question gets raised here, but youknow, in most cases is this going to be even a colorableissue? GENERAL SUMMERS: Your Honor, I don't -- I wouldnot -- I don't think this is, frankly, an extraordinarycase to determine whether or not it was a second orsuccessive. That is to say that when the Sixth Circuitgot the transfer order, they saw just what it was, andthat it was a second or successive application --QUESTION: Yes, you say that, but the reliefsought in the (b) motion was not relief from the Statecourt judgment. It was relief from the final judgment inthe habeas proceeding because of the Tennessee rule, sothey asked to reopen the habeas proceeding, not to file asecond habeas proceeding, and they asked to reopen it, andjust to have a claim which was undecided in thatproceeding decided, which had never been decided, so therewas not asked for second consideration of a claim, just for the first consideration.GENERAL SUMMERS: Yes, Your Honor. What theyasked for was the relitigation of a claim that had been --that -- that --QUESTION: Not of a claim, a first litigation ofa claim.GENERAL SUMMERS: They -- they asked for -- theyasked for the relitigation of a prior final determination,which we -- we submit and we -- our position is that thiswas, in fact, a second -- QUESTION: Did they ask in the (b) motion forrelief from the State court judgment which would be therelief requested in the habeas proceeding?GENERAL SUMMERS: They asked -- I'm sorry.QUESTION: Did they ask for relief from theState court judgment in the (b) motion, or just from thehabeas court judgment?GENERAL SUMMERS: They asked for relief fromthe -- from the habeas judgment in the -- in the districtcourt --QUESTION: So then it was a (b) motion,because that's what (b) is directed at, where the secondor successive petition would have asked for relief fromthe State court judgment.GENERAL SUMMERS: Well, they alleged that it was a (b) motion, but when the district court received themotion, the district court put substance over form and sawclearly that it was a second or successive --QUESTION: Well, you call it that, but supposinginstead of the -- the Tennessee rule, they had been ableto demonstrate it -- very improbable, just to give thehypothesis out -- that a waiver of the claim for theprosecutorial misconduct had been executed and the waiverwas false, that there was a fraud on the court in -- inhaving that issue precluded from review. Would a (b) motion have been permissible then?GENERAL SUMMERS: It would be the inherentauthority of the -- of the district court to take care ofa situation of fraud on the court.QUESTION: By granting a (b) motion?GENERAL SUMMERS: Well, we don't think it wouldeven have to be a (b) motion.QUESTION: Well, wouldn't that be the office ofa (b) motion, to correct that very fraud?GENERAL SUMMERS: Fraud on the court that wouldimpugn the very integrity of the prior final adjudicationwould, in fact, be -- be --QUESTION: Well, you go on a different sectionof Rule , wouldn't you --QUESTION: That's correct.GENERAL SUMMERS: Yes.QUESTION: -- the section of Rule thatspecially deals with fraud.GENERAL SUMMERS: That's right.QUESTION: But in that situation a (b) motionwould be permissible under that section?GENERAL SUMMERS: If there was a fraud on thecourt.QUESTION: Right.GENERAL SUMMERS: But that -- but the fraud on the court would undermine the complete efficacies of theproceedings, and that the final judgment wouldn't even befinal, because it would be a sham.QUESTION: Well, but you have to file a motionand have those facts developed in order to do it, and(b) is the avenue for doing that.GENERAL SUMMERS: That -- I mean, that could bea possible avenue, but that -- but that would only go asto the fraud on the integrity --QUESTION: And here, the relief requested isprecisely the same, namely that one claim was not heardwhich was in the case, for a reason that was -- turned outto be a gross mistake of the law. They thought the lawwas exhaustion because of a rule of law, and it turns outthey were wrong, so you have -- instead of fraud, you have a mistake of law.Now, maybe that doesn't -- doesn't justify (b)relief, but it certainly is a classic case of what (b)is directed to -- to solve.GENERAL SUMMERS: Well --QUESTION: Directed at the final judgment in thehabeas proceeding as opposed to the final judgment in theState proceeding.GENERAL SUMMERS: Of -- of course, Your Honor,that argument would fly in the face of the finality requirements of AEDPA, which only -- which only givesus -- which only gives us limited circumstances torelitigate --QUESTION: But that's true of my fraud case,too.GENERAL SUMMERS: Well, but in the fraud case,Your Honor, the fraud on the court means that the originaljudgment is a complete sham, is a complete sham, and therewas no --QUESTION: And here it isn't a sham, it was justa mistake. They misread the law.GENERAL SUMMERS: Well, they want it both ways,if it please the Court. They either say that it was a newrule or an -- or an old rule that clarified Tennessee law. If it was a new rule, then that would contravene (b) under AEDPA.QUESTION: But that --QUESTION: What is the right way to do it? Thatis, in your opinion, how -- suppose we had a -- we have adefendant, a petitioner, a convicted person, and he has awhole lot of claims, and there he is in Federal court andhe brought all of his claims up to the State supreme courtbut for three, then he suddenly thinks, oh my God, I wishI'd brought those up, too, and the district judge says,well, you sure had to, so you lost them, because it's too late now. Procedural default. It seems obviously right,doesn't even appeal that part of the case.But while the case is on appeal, this Courtsays, he didn't have to go to the State supreme court withthose three claims if the State supreme court agrees, andthen State supreme court then does.All right. Now, there he is. Under the law asit is right now, he can make his three points. He canmake his three claims, and yet as it was before, hecouldn't, and it's right on the case, it's still ongoing. What's supposed to happen?GENERAL SUMMERS: When the --QUESTION: In your opinion is there just -- isthere no way a person could say, judge, please read thesupreme court and the Tennessee court, and you'll see that your ruling was wrong, and believe me, that's right, sowhat is he supposed to do?GENERAL SUMMERS: A prior final determination --a prior final determination by the district court as tothe procedural default should be conclusive.QUESTION: So you're saying he's just out ofluck, nothing?GENERAL SUMMERS: Yes, sir, because --because --QUESTION: It seems terribly unfair -- GENERAL SUMMERS: Well, but we -- yes, YourHonor, but under the provisions of AEDPA there are twocircumstances where he could file a second or successive,which we say is what he has, in fact, done here. One, ofcourse, is if it's a new claim involving a constitutionallaw that's made retroactive by this very Court, or newly-discovered evidence to show factual innocence, but whenthat court -- when that district court -- makes a final, aprior final adjudication, then that is -- that shouldbe -- that should be final. He should appeal thatdecision. He should appeal that decision --QUESTION: General Summers --GENERAL SUMMERS: -- through the normalappellate process.QUESTION: General Summers --GENERAL SUMMERS: He did not in this case.QUESTION: You -- are you -- you're making thegeneral point that's not peculiar to AEDPA? I -- tell meif my understanding is correct -- that (b) is notsupposed to do service in place of an appeal.GENERAL SUMMERS: Yes, Your Honor.QUESTION: So if a district court rulesincorrectly, and you didn't appeal that, and then there'sa clarifying decision by some other court that reallyshows the district court was incorrect on the procedural default, you can't then say, ah, give me the relief under(b) that I could have gotten if I had taken a timelyappeal.GENERAL SUMMERS: Yes, Your Honor. If the --QUESTION: And that's wholly apart from AEDPA.GENERAL SUMMERS: Yes, Your Honor, that'scorrect. If this petitioner had decided that instead, thedistrict court found that he had improperly exhausted hisremedies under State law, that he'd showed no cause ofprejudice or fundamental miscarriage of justice, that hehad procedurally defaulted, and that he, his claim was --it was conclusive that he had no habeas relief, if thepetitioner had wanted to appeal that -- had wanted to findout whether or not the district court was wrong -- heshould have appealed that case. He did not. Under --under the case law but also under (b) doctrine a (b)motion is not a substitute for an appeal. He did notappeal that adjudication by the district judge. He's outof business so far as that's concerned.What he filed in the district court, thedistrict judge got that document, he looked at substance,and the district court said, this is a second orsuccessive. The only jurisdiction in the world todetermine whether to grant or deny second or successive isthe court of appeals. When that court of appeals got that transfer order, there was no termination. They got whatwas --QUESTION: Is it conceivable that a districtjudge might erroneously in some case call something secondor successive and it really wasn't? Is it ever possiblefor him to do -- make that?GENERAL SUMMERS: Well, human beings, it'scertainly possible.QUESTION: And if he does make a mistake, what'sthe remedy for it?GENERAL SUMMERS: There could be a motion totransfer in the court of appeals. The court of appealsif, in fact, finds that it was improvidently transferred,could transfer it back. That would be that remedy, YourHonor.QUESTION: But what if instead -- I gave you afraud example -- instead of that it was a mistake. Thejudge thought that the petitioner had waived the case. They thought there was a document in the file waiving thisissue and he was just dead wrong, and he said, then the --after the decision -- the final decision in the habeascase, the judge -- the litigant finds out that the judgeincorrectly relied on a mistaken representation of fact. Could he not file a (b) to correct that?GENERAL SUMMERS: No, Your Honor. If it was a mistake of fact, if it did not go to -- to undermine theintegrity of that being a final adjudication, no.QUESTION: Well, it -- it undermines it in thesense that it denied the litigant a hearing on a claimasserted in the habeas proceeding, namely, theprosecutorial misconduct. He just never got a hearing onthat.GENERAL SUMMERS: If he were -- if it weresomething of the nature of -- of denying him theopportunity to have a hearing, or if, in fact --QUESTION: That's exactly what it was here, too.GENERAL SUMMERS: Well, no, sir. He did -- hereceived a hearing. He received a hearing, Your Honor,that -- and in that hearing it was determined by the courtthat he had improperly --QUESTION: He failed to exhaust.GENERAL SUMMERS: -- Failed to exhaust --improperly, that he --QUESTION: And that ruling was wrong.GENERAL SUMMERS: -- failed to show cause ofprejudice, that there was no miscarriage of justice, andthat he was conclusively entitled to no habeas relief inthe district court, and that was a conclusive finaldetermination, and if he had felt like the court waswrong, he should have filed an appeal in the Sixth Circuit.QUESTION: Well, I understand that argument, butif -- but I don't understand your position if it was basedon a mistake of fact, rather than a mistake of law. Herewas just a clear mistake of law. The parties allmisunderstood what the law, as later explained by theTennessee court, was. It was -- he did not -- he had, infact, exhausted.GENERAL SUMMERS: Your Honor, if he had thoughtthe judge had made a mistake, he should have appealed.QUESTION: He didn't think so. He didn't knowthat 'til Tennessee adopted its rule --GENERAL SUMMERS: Well --QUESTION: -- which was years later.GENERAL SUMMERS: Well, his argument that Tennessee adopted a rule that either is a new rule or anold rule is not of much import as far as we're concerned,because the Rule that he relies upon changed nothing inTennessee law --QUESTION: Right.GENERAL SUMMERS: -- so far as appellateprocess.QUESTION: But they changed the understanding ofthe district judge and the litigants. They thought thelaw was otherwise. GENERAL SUMMERS: Well, I think -- I think thedistrict court knew what the law was when he made thatdecision, but certainly the Sixth Circuit knew what thelaw was.QUESTION: You think he knew what the Tennesseecourt was later going to decide?GENERAL SUMMERS: Well, actually, the --QUESTION: Because what he did is flatlyinconsistent with what the Tennessee court decided.GENERAL SUMMERS: What the Tennessee court laterdecided, Your Honor, did not change Tennessee law so faras discretionary review at all -- at all.QUESTION: But it did demonstrate, did it not,that the district judge was wrong in his ruling onexhaustion?GENERAL SUMMERS: The district judge was exactlycorrect on his decision.QUESTION: That's the question. That's theultimate question that I think this Court granted cert todecide, but then we discovered that there are all these --this procedural -- the question whether a Tennessee courtsaying you don't have to exhaust does service for theFederal courts. That is, the Federal courts could sayit's an open question.You have to exhaust the remedies that are available to you. You could have requested review. Youdidn't request review. We don't care if Tennessee says,ah, you don't have to, because that's -- that ruling wouldbe made only for purposes of saying, let's get into theFederal court. I take it that's your position.GENERAL SUMMERS: The decision as to theavailability of a remedy is a State decision. Thedecision as to what has been exhausted is a Federaldecision, Your Honor.QUESTION: Yes.GENERAL SUMMERS: The Rule that thepetitioner relies upon did not change discretionary reviewin Tennessee one iota. As a matter of fact, the TennesseeRule of Appellate Procedure says in its comment thatRule does not change TRAP -- as we call it, TRAP --whatsoever. Discretionary review was in ', when he didnot appeal to the supreme court, as well as in June ,, an absolute available remedy under the normalappellate processes in Tennessee.QUESTION: So on your view, the district courtwas right when the district court said the first timearound, sorry, you didn't exhaust.GENERAL SUMMERS: Your Honor, our view is thatthe district court was right in when he ruled thatthe claims were procedurally defaulted, and if this case -- if this case were to go back to the district courttoday, he would rule that the claims had beenprocedurally --QUESTION: Well, that -- we don't know that because I think it's an open question whether -- afterO'Sullivan -- the position taken in O'Sullivan would applywhen the State court says you don't have to exhaust.GENERAL SUMMERS: But there's no questionthat -- there is no question that in , when thedistrict court found that the -- that the issues had beenprocedurally defaulted, and that there had been no showingof cause in prejudice, no miscarriage of justice, thatthat was a conclusive final determination.What this -- what this petitioner attempts to dois to -- under the guise of a post-judgment pleading --avoid or evade the second or successive restriction. Thisflies in the face of AEDPA, would be a mockery of thefinality requirements of AEDPA, and we would submit to theCourt that the transfer to the court of appeals was aproper transfer, and that the court of appeals properlydetermined the gatekeeping criteria was satisfied, thewrit should be dismissed or, in the alternative, thedecision of the court of appeals should be affirmed.QUESTION: Thank you, General Summers.Mr. Zidlicky, we'll hear from you. ORAL ARGUMENT OF PAUL J. ZIDLICKYON BEHALF OF AMICI CURIAE, STATE OF ALABAMA, ET AL.MR. ZIDLICKY: Mr. Chief Justice, and may itplease the Court:I'd like to start by first responding to JusticeStevens' question, in which he said that the Rule (b)motion didn't seek the relief of granting of Federalhabeas. It actually did. In the joint appendix in ,the court -- the petitioner sought relief from the Statecourt judgment in bullet point -- I believe it's five, butin any event, I think underlying that is the question ofwhether there had been a prior --QUESTION: You say the (b) motion was directedat the State court judgment, is that what you're tellingme?MR. ZIDLICKY: Yes. Yes, Justice Stevens.QUESTION: And not at the habeas -- not askingthe habeas court to vacate the ruling on the -- on --denying habeas and setting it down for a ruling on the --on the prosecutorial misconduct?MR. ZIDLICKY: For both. For both, JusticeStevens. He asked for both of those, and I think -- hesought to reopen the judgment, and he also sought -- hesought in bullet point to -- or, relief from the Statecourt judgment, and that's in the joint appendix. The question --QUESTION: But (b) just gets him the firststep, and if he succeeds in the first step, then he goesfurther and says, okay, relieve me from the State courtjudgment.MR. ZIDLICKY: Well, I was just responding justto Justice Stevens' point that he didn't seek that reliefin his Rule (b) motion. He actually did, but the -- butthe underlying question is --QUESTION: But he's doing it simply because heis saying, I guess, that's where I'm trying to get toultimately.MR. ZIDLICKY: What he's trying to do is, he'strying to relitigate a claim that had been adjudicatedagainst him through Rule (b), and this Court said in Calderon that you can't -- that the requirements of(b) can't be evaded, and one of those requirements is,you can't relitigate a claim that has been adjudicated.QUESTION: Well, he's not relitigating a claimthat's been adjudicated, he's relitigating -- he wants tolitigate a claim that had not been adjudicated. He wanteda ruling on the merits of his claim, which he never got.MR. ZIDLICKY: No, Justice Stevens, there was anadjudication of his claim. There was an adjudication ofhis claim by the district court which said his claim was procedurally defaulted --QUESTION: Yes.MR. ZIDLICKY: -- and that he had failed toestablish cause and prejudice, and that --QUESTION: Correct, but they didn't get a rulingon the merits of the claim.MR. ZIDLICKY: No, he --QUESTION: They just ruled that it wasprocedurally defaulted because it had not been exhausted.MR. ZIDLICKY: Well, that's -- but I don't thinkthat's right, Justice Stevens. In this Court's cases inStewart and Slack, the Court made clear that indetermining whether there had been a prior -- the languagethat the Court had used was whether there had been a prioradjudication of the claim. Here, there was a prior adjudication of the claim. This Court's precedent, goingback to Wainwright v. Sykes, Coleman v. Thompson, and --QUESTION: But the adjudication to which yourefer is a holding that it was procedurally defaultedbecause the -- they had not been exhausted in the SupremeCourt of Tennessee. Is that not correct?MR. ZIDLICKY: That's correct, Justice Stevens.QUESTION: And that amounts to an adjudicationon the merits, but in fact, the merits had never beendecided. MR. ZIDLICKY: No, it is -- it's an adjudicationfor purposes of -- it's -- for purposes of determiningwhether he can come back and file to relitigate the issue,come back and --QUESTION: Right, it's an adjudication that hasfinality, which merits adjudications usually do, but it'sa finality adjudication that does not rest upon anyfinding about the underlying merits of the claim that hewanted to bring for relief. Isn't that clear?MR. ZIDLICKY: That's not the test that thisCourt has adopted in --QUESTION: I'm not asking you whether it's --I'm just asking you as a descriptive matter --MR. ZIDLICKY: I don't -- you're right, JusticeSouter, he didn't make a determination regarding the underlying merit of the constitutional claim, but --QUESTION: Okay, and we use the term, I think --correct me if I'm wrong, we use the term, meritsdetermination, to refer to a determination that isbinding, i.e., he can't do something back in the Statecourt and then come back and try again here. We call thata determination on the merits, but there are two kinds ofmerits determinations.One is a finding of default which cannot becured. Second is a finding which may involve default, but may involve a determination on the merits of theunderlying claim, and this is just a default kind ofmerits, not an underlying claim kind of merits finality,isn't that correct, just as a descriptive matter?MR. ZIDLICKY: I think it's correct as adescriptive matter to -- but with one qualification. Whatyou're saying is that there is an exception for -- I thinkin substance what you're saying is, you can continue torelitigate claims of procedural default because they're,quote, not on the merits, but I think the way --QUESTION: Well, maybe you can and maybe youcan't. His argument here is, this is one that I ought tobe allowed to relitigate, i.e., to litigate despite afinality judgment, because of something very unusual thathappened as a result of the supreme court's rule change. What he's saying is, this is a special kindof -- third kind of case in the middle, and you want totreat this one for (b) purposes like a non-finaldetermination. I think that's the argument.MR. ZIDLICKY: Justice Souter, and perhapsthis -- this is -- I don't think this is an exceptionalcase in this regard. When he went back --QUESTION: Well, he may be wrong that it's anexceptional case, but that's the argument that he'smaking, isn't it? MR. ZIDLICKY: Well, the argument that he'smaking is, he's entitled to relitigate a claim that hasbeen adjudicated against the --QUESTION: No, he's not making that blanketstatement. He's saying that in a case like this, in whichthe finality which is claimed does not rest on a meritsdetermination, I ought to have a chance under (b).MR. ZIDLICKY: Well, I do think that this is --this case is fundamentally different than the case inStewart and Slack. In those cases, what the court haddetermined was, it wasn't a second or successive habeaspetition. You weren't seeking to relitigate, and thereason was because you'd never received an adjudication ofthe case at all. The court didn't say no to your habeasclaim. It said, not yet.In Slack, the court said, go -- go exhaust. InStewart, the court said, the case is not ripe. Here whatthe court -- here what the court -- the district courttold him was, they didn't say not yet, the court said no,you're going to lose, and you're going to lose based onprecedent from this Court starting with Wainwright v.Sykes.Really what they're asking is for an -- aloophole to this -- to the requirement for second andsuccessive petitions for procedurally defaulted cases, and if that's the loophole, then there's no way to distinguishthat from abuse of -- abuse of the writ cases, because inboth instances, you can make the argument that therewasn't any ruling on the substantive merits, but there wasa ruling, and the one that's important was, he received anadjudication, and if he disagreed with that adjudicationhe should have --QUESTION: Could you describe for me whatportion of Rule (b) is still operative with reference tomistakes, given AEDPA? Does AEDPA completely supersedeRule (b) with reference to the category of mistakes and,if not, how would you characterize or describe for us whatremains of Rule (b)?MR. ZIDLICKY: I think what -- the analysis thatthe Court would have to determine is whether there had been an adjudication. If later on there's a claim, afterthe court has decided the issue, that there was a mistakeof fact or a mistake of law, the question is, are youtrying to relitigate the issue, and if that's the casethen (b) wouldn't apply.But if you're saying that there was neveradjudication in the first place for the example of a judgewho had been bribed in the first Federal habeasproceedings, you would say, well, that's not a second orsuccessive habeas application -- QUESTION: As to anything that's beenadjudicated, the category of mistakes is removed from Rule(b) when AEDPA is in the picture?MR. ZIDLICKY: I think if there's been anadjudication, and I think that's the sense that -- in yourdecision in Slack -- that's the underlying issue.Now, it -- that doesn't mean that there's norelief. You can -- you can try to seek to file a secondor successive habeas application, but this Court in Davisversus Pitchess made clear that Rule (b) is not a way ofcircumventing the requirements of AEDPA, and you inCalderon made clear that what AEDPA prohibits is therelitigation of a claim that had been adjudicated, andthat's exactly what we have in this case. There had beenan adjudication. He claims that it was wrong. QUESTION: I think -- I think you're saying thatif there's an adjudication, there's no room for a (b)motion predicated on a mistake. That's your submission?MR. ZIDLICKY: That is my submission. I don'tthink there was a mistake here. I --QUESTION: I understand, but that's yoursubmission. In construing Rule (b), it simply does notapply if there's been an adjudication, but my suggestionto you is that the only time (b) applies is when you'vegot a judgment you want to reopen. MR. ZIDLICKY: Well, Your Honor -- and thereason that (b) -- you know, one of the arguments thatpetitioner makes here is, they say that, well, theseclaims will rarely be granted so you don't have to worryabout it, but the -- but what AEDPA requires is, it saysthese claims are -- the -- if you're trying to relitigatea second or successive habeas application, what it doesis, it takes that away from the district court completely,the delay in the costs that are associated with thatrelitigation.QUESTION: I agree with everything you say ifyou are correct in classifying a particular judgment -- Imean, a particular claim as a second or successive claim.MR. ZIDLICKY: Right.QUESTION: There are some cases, I think, when that classification does not fit the facts.MR. ZIDLICKY: But I think, though, adetermination of procedural default falls in the heartlandof habeas jurisprudence, and it's the heartland of adetermination that you're not entitled to relief. InSlack and in Stewart --QUESTION: So in your view, (b) necessarilyhas a much more narrow application in AEDPA cases than inother cases, or in habeas cases than in other cases?MR. ZIDLICKY: Yes, Justice -- Justice Kennedy, I think that's right, and I think the reason why isbecause, as this Court explained in Davis versus Pitchess,you can't use (b) to circumvent the substantiverequirements of --QUESTION: Well, what do they really intend inCongress if, for example, the court comes up with aninterpretation of a statute that shows the defendantdidn't commit a crime, and there he is in habeas. He'sgot a final ruling, denied. Lo and behold the SupremeCourt comes up with a case to say, you never committed acrime. He looks at AEDPA. He can't find it's a second orsuccessive because it says, constitutional ruling. What'she supposed to do? Nothing? And do you think Congressmeant that there was no remedy at all?MR. ZIDLICKY: I think -- I think what Congress did was, it -- it did identify the criteria that -- that adistrict court would look to in determining -- it definedthat criteria, but the one -- the one place that you couldlook to is, you could then go back to this Court'soriginal jurisdiction under for those exceptionalcircumstances.QUESTION: Thank you. Thank you, Mr. Zidlicky.Mr. Liebman, you have minutes remaining.REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF JAMES S. LIEBMANON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONER MR. LIEBMAN: I would like to direct the Court'sattention to pages and of our reply brief, theyellow brief. On those pages, in the footnote in the textthere are a number of cases that are cited. Every singleone of those cases is a (b) case in a habeas or situation where (b) was granted, relief was granted andit was determined that this was not a second or successivepetition.In each one of those cases, the reason wasmistake of law, the U.S. Supreme Court or some other courtcame down with a new decision, and in every one of thosecases, that issue was not raised on direct appeal to thecourt of appeals. It came back on a (b). In each casethey had to adjudicate the question of whether it wasreasonable for them not to have raised it in the court of appeals at that time, and in each case they did on theground that the new decision that came down changedeverything, and it suddenly made what looked like afrivolous claim at that time into what was not a frivolousclaim, but, indeed, one on which there was at least aright to adjudication on the merits.In some cases they won, in some they lost whenthey went to the merits after they got their (b) relief,but the fact is that those cases, including this Court'sGVR in Blackmon v. Money, which was a (b) case on a successive, or a second, not a successive but a secondhabeas petition, were cases where they had not been raisedon appeal, but they -- they were determined to be at leastpotentially ones where there was a reasonable basis fornot having done it, and frivolousness, not makingfrivolous claims is such a basis. This Court in Gomez andother cases has been particularly emphatic that habeaspetitioners should not -- especially in capital cases --should not be raising frivolous claims.The second thing I want to point to is that the(b)()(E), which says that there is no -- it not onlysays the Supreme Court can't take a cert petition, it saysthat rehearing petitions can't be held in the court ofappeals, but the court of appeals are unanimous in saying,if the question is whether this is a second or successive petition, that can be reheard. That's not governed by(b)()(E).We can separate that question out, and we candecide that, and it's exactly the same thing here. Thekey case there is Mancuso in the Second Circuit, F.d, so the courts have been separating out thosequestions, saying if it's a question of jurisdiction --CHIEF JUSTICE REHNQUIST: Thank you,Mr. Liebman. The case is submitted.(Whereupon, at : p.m., the case in the above-entitled matter was submitted.) 