 IN THE SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -XBOARD OF EDUCATION OF INDEPENDENT SCHOOL DISTRICT NO. OF POTTAWATOMIE COUNTY, ET AL., Petitioners :::::v. : No. -LINDSAY EARLS, ET AL. :- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -XWashington, D.C.Tuesday, March , The above-entitled matter came on for oralargument before the Supreme Court of the United States at: a.m.APPEARANCES:LINDA M. MEOLI, ESQ., Oklahoma City, Oklahoma; on behalfof the Petitioners.PAUL D. CLEMENT, ESQ., Deputy Solicitor General,Department of Justice, Washington, D.C.; on behalf ofthe United States, as amicus curiae, supporting thePetitioners.GRAHAM A. BOYD, ESQ., New Haven, Connecticut; on behalfof the Respondents. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC C O N T E N T SORAL ARGUMENT OF LINDA M. MEOLI, ESQ.On behalf of the Petitioners PAUL D. CLEMENT, ESQ.On behalf of the United States, as amicus curiae, supporting the Petitioners GRAHAM A. BOYD, ESQ.On behalf of the Respondents PAGE th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC P R O C E E D I N G S(: a.m.)CHIEF JUSTICE REHNQUIST: We'll hear argumentnow in No. -- oh, pardon me -- -, the Board ofEducation of Independent School District No. ofPottawatomie County v. Lindsay Earls.Ms. Meoli. Meoli I guess. Is -- is that thecorrect pronunciation? ORAL ARGUMENT OF LINDA M. MEOLION BEHALF OF THE PETITIONERSMS. MEOLI: Meoli. QUESTION: Meoli, okay. The third time is thecharm. (Laughter.) MS. MEOLI: Mr. Chief Justice, and may it pleasethe Court:This case involves the constitutionality of theTecumseh School Board's decision to implement asuspicionless drug testing policy for students incompetitive activities as a reasonable response to studentdrug use. Tecumseh's policy represents a natural, logical,and rational application of this Court's decision inVernonia v. Acton. Vernonia's policy applied to studentswho chose to participate in interscholastic athletics. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC Tecumseh's policy applies as well to athletics, but alsoto all the other competitive activities that are offeredby the district. Respondents do not challenge the policy asapplied to the athletics, conceding that this Courtapproved that practice in Vernonia. Competitive --QUESTION: Well, this policy goes beyond whatwas permitted in Vernonia, does it not?MS. MEOLI: Well, it covers --QUESTION: It greatly expands the number ofstudents covered by the policy. MS. MEOLI: It -- it covers a wider variety ofinterscholastic competitive activities.QUESTION: And the evidence is not as strong, isit, in this case of drug use in the school as -- as wasthe case in Vernonia?MS. MEOLI: Well, Your Honor, we do not believethat is true.QUESTION: Well, if you go by the districtcourt's findings, that's what you'd conclude. MS. MEOLI: The district court in Vernonia?QUESTION: In this case.MS. MEOLI: In this case. No, Your Honor, I --I really don't think so. I think there is ample evidencein the record to demonstrate a drug problem in Tecumseh. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC QUESTION: What do you --QUESTION: By the -- by the young people whowere involved in these particular extracurricularactivities?MS. MEOLI: Yes, we do have evidence of drug usewith these students in extracurricular activities. QUESTION: Well, what do you make of the -- thereports that have been filed up to the eve of the adoptionof this regulation by the school district with the Feds,year after year after year, saying, things are fine here? The only thing we have to worry about is some beer. Werethey lying? MS. MEOLI: No, Your Honor, I don't think theywere lying. Number one, the district has always admittedthat alcohol really is the number one problem in theschool district, and that's what the applications for theFederal --QUESTION: Yes, but they were -- they weresaying at the same time that they didn't have a problemwith -- with what we usually refer to as drugs.MS. MEOLI: They said it -- it wasn't a majorproblem at that time. And -- and I think if youcompare --QUESTION: And -- and in point of fact, as Iunderstand it, since the testing has been carried out th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC among the -- the class of people subject to thischallenge, there have been only three instances of anydrug use found.MS. MEOLI: From the -- from the drug testing?QUESTION: It would seem -- it seems to me thatyour evidentiary problem is up to the eve of adopting theregulation, the school district was saying, we don't havea problem. And once the regulation was, in fact, in --was -- was placed into effect, you've gone for severalyears and you found three instances. I -- I don't see howyou -- you don't lose whether we look at it ex ante or expost. MS. MEOLI: Let me answer the second part first. First of all, the -- the policy was only in effect for alimited amount of time in the -year span of time. It wasimplemented halfway into the first school year, and so alimited amount of students were covered in that firstyear.The second year, the lawsuit was filed at thebeginning of August, and therefore only a very limitednumber of initial testing was done before the districtdetermined to hold the policy in abeyance. There werefour students in -- under those limited amount of studentsthat tested positive. I know the court of appealsreferred to three in one area, but that was just in the th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC high school.QUESTION: But didn't one --QUESTION: Well, I suppose the existence of apolicy might be expected to deter drug use so that youwould have fewer instances after it was imposed. MS. MEOLI: Yes, Your Honor, and -- and in factreally --QUESTION: We will never know, will we?QUESTION: Well, let her answer the question.(Laughter.) MS. MEOLI: Your Honor, in fact, it -- it reallydid. I -- I mean, if you even take the limited amount oftesting that we did in the -year period of time, thefirst year three students tested positive, the second yearone student tested positive. The only full year that thetesting was applied in the Tecumseh School District wasafter the district court made its decision but before thecourt of appeals overruled it. And that evidence is notin the record, but it was -- there was a greater number ofstudents that tested --QUESTION: Ms. Meoli, didn't we say in Vernoniathat in Skinner, which was the railroad employee testingcase, we did not demand that it be shown that theparticular railroad had a drug problem? Didn't we say itwas enough that there was a nationwide problem? th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC MS. MEOLI: Yes, Your Honor. QUESTION: We said that in Skinner, and weadverted to that in Vernonia.MS. MEOLI: And -- and Vernonia's evidence aswell showed that there was not a specific drug problemamong athletes. QUESTION: I thought the argument in Vernoniaand I thought the opinion in Vernonia, in assessing theparticular interest of the district, repeatedly emphasizedthe particular problems with the athletes. The athleteswere the ones that the kids looked up to. They were therole models. There was rampant drug use among theathletes. There was a rampant disciplinary problem amongthe athletes. Athletes were getting injured. There was avery specific showing of a specific interest of thedistrict. And now you're coming in and saying, well, that-- that really does not matter. And it seems to me thatthe implication of what you're saying is that this so-called special needs requirement will apply to every childin every school in the United States. MS. MEOLI: I'm not saying that, Your Honor. I-- I think there is a corollary --QUESTION: But isn't that the implication ofwhat you're saying? th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC MS. MEOLI: No, Your Honor, I don't. Forinstance, you were talking about in Vernonia the athleteswere looked up as role models. Well, the athletes ininterscholastic competition in Tecumseh are looked at asrole models to some students --QUESTION: Except for one startling difference. The -- in -- there was a problem with athletes. Here,one thing that is clear in the record is the -- the schoolboard's admission that the -- that the drug and alcoholproblem is more of a problem with those who are notengaged in these extracurricular activities. In otherwords, the testing is directed to a group, those engagedin competitive activities, that is less of a problem, asfar as drug use is concerned, than the rest of thestudents who are idle. And just naturally one wouldexpect what turns out to be the case, that there's moredrug use in the group that's not tested than there is inthe group that's tested.MS. MEOLI: Well, Your Honor, we have never saidthat the -- the students in interscholastic competitiveactivities are the only students or even the most likelystudents to be abusing drugs. But the evidence that wehave in the case demonstrate that they do abuse drugs.QUESTION: Well, I'm -- I'm referringspecifically to page and of the joint appendix th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC where the question is whether the students who tend to beinvolved in drugs are the ones most likely to be choosingextracurricular activities. And the answer ultimately is,we have students that are on drugs, and they are inextracurricular activities. They are -- they are -- thereare probably more that are not in activities.MS. MEOLI: That was the testimony of the -- ofthe board president, Dean Rogers. There's also testimonyof James Blue that said he really didn't find thatdifference between --QUESTION: Where is that testimony? MS. MEOLI: I think it is at page , YourHonor. Page . Now, national studies show that band,vocal and non-athletic extracurricular activitiesstudents, they are the least likely of all students to usedrugs. Would you agree that this same -- the same thingwould hold true for Tecumseh High School students? Theanswer was, no, I would not.QUESTION: He had no basis for saying yes or no.MS. MEOLI: Well, yes, he -- he says thatinitially, and then he goes on to say, I just know thatall age levels, all categories -- if we're categorizingthe students that frequent the park. This part of thedeposition was referring to this --QUESTION: Yes, but he's not saying, as was the th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC case in Vernonia, that here is a group that we canidentify that has this problem. Either there's noparticular problem with this group as opposed to allstudents -- so, my question is if -- if you can, on theabsence of any special showing with respect to thisextracurricular group, then it seems to me that yourargument is really that all students can be tested. Imean, there was a special circumstance with the athletesin Vernonia. Your argument for these extracurricularpeople I think would hold as well for -- for all thestudents because there's no more of a problem and probablyless among those engaged in extracurricular activitiesthan the -- than among the students that don't do anythingafter school.MS. MEOLI: Your Honor, the use of -- of drugsamong the students in competitive activities was just oneof the factors as to why the Tecumseh board selected thatgroup. I really do think that, in fact, the -- at themeeting that the school district held for the community togive input, they asked that same question, why can't wedrug test all students? And I think there's a couple ofreasons as to why you can't. One of the reasons I think is because studentsin general have a property right in their education. Hence, they have a legal entitlement to a free public th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC education. Secondly, the State compels them to be there,and parents, if they do not send their -- their childrento school, face criminal prosecution. So -- so they arethere. And I don't think that you can fashion a drugtesting policy that could have the kind of consequencesthat would deny them that opportunity or -- or preventparents from being persecuted for not --QUESTION: Well, if you want --QUESTION: You don't -- you don't have to gothat far, do you, in order to -- in order to justifylimiting it to those who participate in -- in voluntaryactivities?MS. MEOLI: No, Your Honor. We -- we --QUESTION: It seems to me you could say even ifwe could drug test anybody, we made the choice of giving astudent who feels that strongly about not undergoing drugtesting the ability to avoid it by simply not engaging inthe extracurricular activities. You don't have to foregogoing to school entirely or go to a private school. Youcan simply not participate in extracurricular activity. Isn't that in itself a valid reason for limiting it toextracurricular activities? MS. MEOLI: Yes. Yes, Your Honor. I --QUESTION: It's an equally valid argument -- I th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC -- I suppose an equally valid argument would -- for -- fortesting everybody would be our object is to stop drug use,not to penalize people who go out for band. And there'ssome evidence in this record that there is more drug useabout the -- among the people who are not going out forextracurricular activities, but among those who do. Andtherefore, if your argument is good for this case, itseems to me your argument, a fortiori, is good for testingeverybody in the school.MS. MEOLI: Your Honor, the -- the purpose ofthis program is not to discipline students. It's not tocatch them. It is to deter drug use and to help thosestudents --QUESTION: Don't you want to deter drug useamong those who do not go out for band? MS. MEOLI: Yes, Your Honor, I -- I believe wedo.QUESTION: Then why isn't the argument good thatyou can test everybody? MS. MEOLI: Well, number one, I -- I think thereis a deterrent effect for implementing this program amongthe student -- general student body. If they want to --QUESTION: Well, I think -- go ahead. MS. MEOLI: If they want to try out or -- oraudition for one of those competitive activities, they th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC know in advance that one of the regulations is to besubjected to drug testing.QUESTION: No, but with respect, what you'rearguing is -- is a justification for the present policythat you've got, and I understand your position there.What I'm interested in and Justice Ginsburg wasa moment ago is it seems to me that if -- if we take yourargument and we take the evidence that is indicated on therecord, there is at least an equally good argument fortesting everybody in the school, whether they go out forband or whatnot or -- or do not. And -- and isn't thatthe case? That's what we're interested in.MS. MEOLI: Well, I think there is a reasonablygood argument for that. We're not espousing that, but Ithink --QUESTION: No, I realize --MS. MEOLI: -- even though -- even -- even if weutilize the balancing test that was utilized in Vernonia,I -- I think there is a really good argument --QUESTION: But if we get to that point, then thewhole notion of special need has -- has, more or less,evaporated. We don't have the kind of special safety needas -- as in the railroad case. We don't have the unusualtemptation to crime need as in the immigration case, andthe special need is simply the need to deter drug use th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC among all children in all schools of the United States. And -- and if the -- if the theory of this is specialneed, it seems to me that the concept of special needseems to have gotten lost.QUESTION: I suppose the distinction that youdraw is based on the fact that you have a sanction for thepeople that you apply it to. You can tell them you cannotparticipate in extracurricular activities. But as -- ifyou applied it to the whole school board -- to the wholeschool population, rather, you couldn't sanction them bysaying you cannot come to school.MS. MEOLI: Exactly, Your Honor, and -- and thatreally is our position because we have to educate the --QUESTION: But you could say --QUESTION: And the only sanction you impose isyou just can't play in the band or -- or cheerlead orwhatever it is they want to do. MS. MEOLI: You can -- you can remain in theclass.QUESTION: So, you have a special burden if youwant to engage in extracurricular activities.MS. MEOLI: Yes, Your Honor. QUESTION: Or how about taking elective classes,classes that the State doesn't require you to take, butsome students might like to take? th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC MS. MEOLI: Well, Your Honor, we have to draw aline somewhere, and -- and even though elective classesare a choice --QUESTION: Well, I wondered what -- the linethat you would draw as a question of the school's policy,but you were saying at least you see a problem withtesting everyone because people are compelled to go toschool and -- so that's why you resisted drawing the linethere. My question is if you're doing a voluntary, thenwhy don't you say as well, you volunteer for -- you'retaking a certain course, this is an elective course. Samething. MS. MEOLI: Well -- well, elective courses arereally mandatory, Your Honor, in many cases. I mean, youhave your core curriculum that are required forgraduation, and you also have your electives. You need credits in order to graduate from high school. of themhave to be in the core subjects. The rest of them areelectives. But those are required. QUESTION: Except for that, it would be a goodidea, though, wouldn't it? (Laughter.)MS. MEOLI: Yes, Your Honor. I -- I think if --if we could fashion -- th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC QUESTION: That's what I thought you'd say. MS. MEOLI: If we could fashion a way to do it,I believe the majority of school boards would be behindit. But -- but at the state of the constitutions of -- ofthe States and the states of the compulsory educationlaws that all the States have, I -- I don't think that ispossible. So, if a line is going to be drawn, I think theline can be drawn between the students in the generalschool population and students in extracurricular --QUESTION: May I ask? Is there any othersanction other than -- other than ineligibility forextracurricular activities? Is there any other sanctionimposed on a student who is found to have been usingdrugs?MS. MEOLI: No -- no, Your Honor, and in fact,that only happens in this policy under the third time --QUESTION: So, really the student could say,well, the worst -- if I go out for extracurricularactivities and get caught, it'll be back where if I hadgone out at all. (Laughter.) QUESTION: He gets back to square one.MS. MEOLI: Well, I think -- I think childrenwho engage in these activities really want to compete. Imean, they are really interested in what they are doing. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC So, they don't want to get caught. And it's also a -- away for these students to say no. Peer pressure amongelementary and secondary school children is -- is verysignificant, and --QUESTION: Could you, for that reason, adopt asa -- as one of our sanctions or a supplementary sanctionsimply publicity that the person has been caught? Anybodywho fails the drug test will have his name and photographposted on the bulletin board. Would that be -- would thatbe constitutional too? I presume it would be under yourtheory. MS. MEOLI: I -- I think it would be very cruel,Your Honor. As -- as to whether --QUESTION: It would get the job done.MS. MEOLI: -- as to whether it isconstitutional or not -- we're -- we're not in -- in thejob of disciplining students. And -- and we seem to begoing into that realm more and more. This program -- wedon't want to put an A on them or a big substance abuse onthem. What we really want to do is help those students. And it may be constitutional to do that, but that's notwhat we are asking this Court to do. We're just askingyou to give us the tools to deter drug use, to help thosedrug users. And -- and if there are no other questions -- th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC QUESTION: Very well, Ms. Meoli. MS. MEOLI: -- my time. QUESTION: Mr. Clement.ORAL ARGUMENT OF PAUL D. CLEMENTON BEHALF OF THE UNITED STATES,AS AMICUS CURIAE, SUPPORTING THE PETITIONERSMR. CLEMENT: Mr. Chief Justice, and may itplease the Court:A school district that reasonably concludes thatit faces a drug problem may adopt random drug tests forstudents engaged in competitive extracurricular activitieswithout violating the Constitution. QUESTION: Suppose you've had hard statisticalevidence to show that the kids that go out for theextracurricular activities are the ones that really do notuse drugs, that the high drug user population is in thosethat don't engage in the activities. What -- what wouldyour recommendation be to the school board at that point?MR. CLEMENT: I think in a case like that, itstill might be appropriate for the school district to testthe students involved in extracurricular activities, and Ithink that is because, as this Court has emphasized on anumber of occasions, by making the -- the testing programapplicable only to an avoidable activity, the -- theschool district would be ensuring the reasonableness of th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC the program under the Fourth Amendment. QUESTION: But there's some -- we -- we had anamicus brief by some -- a pediatrics association and soforth that pointed out that students that engage in theseextracurricular activities are, indeed, the least likelyto be involved in drug use. And it seems so odd to try topenalize those students and leave untested the studentsthat are most apt to be engaged in the problem. MR. CLEMENT: Well --QUESTION: It's just -- it's socounterintuitive, isn't it? MR. CLEMENT: A couple of points in response tothat, Justice O'Connor. First, there's contrary evidenceas well, and the petitioners in their reply brief point tosome evidentiary studies that showed that really drug useis distributed evenly across all groups in the student --in the student population. The second thing I would add is that as -- as Iwas noting in answer to Justice Kennedy's question, thereis a sense, and which the majority and Justice Ginsburg in-- in Vernonia emphasized, that by making the program onlyapplicable to activities that are avoidable, you -- youlimit Fourth Amendment difficulties. You make the programmore reasonable. And as Justice Stevens pointed out, youalso avoid any difficult questions that might be th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC occasioned by the consequences of a drug testing programthat applies to school-wide.QUESTION: Well, this in the face of a schooldistrict that is certifying to the Federal Government theydon't have a drug problem. I mean, the whole thing isabsolutely odd. MR. CLEMENT: Well, I don't think it's that odd,Justice O'Connor. First of all, in terms of thecertifications, I would direct you to footnote of thedistrict court opinion. And the district court found inthat footnote that what those reports really emphasizedare the relative natures of the problem. Alcohol was themajor problem they faced, but in each one of those --those reports, they note that they do have a drug problem.QUESTION: Well, if alcohol is the problem, whydon't they address that? This is just -- I mean, it'sstructured in a way to do very little good it seems to me.QUESTION: Mr. Clement, do you think any schoolin the country doesn't have a drug problem? MR. CLEMENT: I would be surprised to find aschool district that didn't. The national figures on --on the -- the amount of drug use are really staggering. As we note in our brief, over half of all th gradershave tried illegal drugs by the time they graduate fromhigh school. So, I really think that, you know, if th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC anything, the burden ought to shift in these cases to theother side to show that this one school district is theone school district --QUESTION: Can -- can you tell me --QUESTION: In both Skinner and Von Raab, weimposed or we permitted the imposition of drug testing onthe basis of a nationwide problem, didn't we, without --without showing that the particular entity in questionshared in that national problem? MR. CLEMENT: That's correct, Justice Scalia.And I would also point out I'm not sure you wantto put school districts in the business of trying -- whenthey -- when they find some incidental evidence of druguse, to try to pin it down to the exact extracurriculargroups involved. If a student comes in --QUESTION: Well, do --MR. CLEMENT: -- for some sort of anonymous drugcounseling, I'm not sure they want to ask him what groupsare you in.QUESTION: May I ask? What is your view on --on the validity of a -- a school-wide drug testingprogram? MR. CLEMENT: Justice Stevens, we think such aprogram would be constitutional, but we think the programat issue here -- th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC QUESTION: So, you would differ from thepetitioners then. MR. CLEMENT: We -- we do have that difference,but we think a program like this is constitutional forthree reasons. One, extracurricular students agree toadditional intrusions on their privacy and have additionalsafety risks. Second, as --QUESTION: No. But you say they agree to it. They agree to it only under the circumstances that if theydon't agree to it, they can't engage in any of theseactivities. They know perfectly well they'll never getinto a competitive college if they don't. And the -- theagreement is not simply something that is -- is arrived atsort of in the abstract. There's -- there's tremendouspressure on them to agree to it. MR. CLEMENT: Two points, Justice Souter. First, we're not suggesting this is -- this isconstitutional because it's consensual. I think JusticeKennedy, in -- in his separate opinion in the Fergusoncase, pointed out that in these special needs contexts,there's an element of voluntariness which is important tothe constitutional analysis, even if it's not voluntary inthe full sense of the word. This -- a second and related point about that,though, is that these are avoidable programs, and I think th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC that makes the important difference. And again, as Inoted earlier, because they're -- they're avoidable inthat sense, it avoids any difficult questions with theconsequences that a positive test might generate.QUESTION: But it doesn't --QUESTION: May I ask you a question that -- thatis -- concern -- concerns me about the difference betweenthis case and Vernonia? If we -- if we look at whatpeople might expect in the real world, where people knowthat athletes, professional athletes, Olympic athletes,athletes are tested for drugs, but people who are justeveryday people aren't. So, Vernonia could be regarded asall the students who are athletes -- they will be treatedas athletes are generally. But that's not true of the --the large population of high school students.MR. CLEMENT: Well, I mean, I -- I think onefact is that I think it is increasingly becoming true that-- that these sorts of policies are in society as a whole. And one of the petitioners in this case who -- who didn'twanted to be drug tested at school had to go get drugtested for the job at the Kmart, at the McDonald's. And Ido think that probably does have some influence on thereasonable expectations of privacy in this area. But I also think that it really doesn't make alot of sense to draw a line on -- on sports, and even th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC within sports, of course, there are differences. TheVernonia policy applied to golfers, as well as footballplayers. Now, I'm not aware that golfers, as a generalmatter, are tested for substance abuse even on the PGATour. I could be wrong about that, but the point is thereare differences in the risks even among the athletes, andI think this Court in Vernonia didn't make anything turnon those differences. The dissent in Vernonia pointed out that therewasn't any evidence of drug use at the grade school in theth and th grade, and that the evidence really wasn't anevidence of a disciplinary problem that was specific tostudent athletes. And the majority in Vernonia did not --was not -- was not moved by those two points. Themajority said that the evidence was good enough in thesecontexts. And I think this is an area where deference tothe local school boards in their determinations about thenature of the problem, the nature of the solution, andparticularly the particular students that are going to betested is quite appropriate. It's important torecognize --QUESTION: But you would make -- you would make-- and I think you've said this -- the same argument ifthey had decided to have a universal drug testing policy th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC in the school.MR. CLEMENT: I would, Justice Souter. I do --as I said, I think it's a more difficult question. And Ithink the most difficult problem with a school-wide testis what Justice Stevens pointed out, and that would bewhat are the consequences of a positive test. But if youimagine a school district that -- that faced -- reasonablyconcluded it faced a serious problem and instituted a drugtest where the only ramification of a positive drug testwas a confidential notification of the parents, I don'tsee why that test would violate Fourth Amendmentreasonableness. QUESTION: But at that point, I -- the so-calledspecial need has become virtually a universal need.MR. CLEMENT: I would like to say two things inresponse to that. First, in Vernonia itself, this Court didn'tidentify the special need as being the drug problem. ThisCourt identified the special need as being the schoolsetting, and that's consistent with this Court's decisionin T.L.O.QUESTION: And -- and the special need would bea universal need in every school in the United States. MR. CLEMENT: I -- I do think it would properlyrecognize that the school context is different, and that th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC school boards have a freer hand in testing their studentsthan the Government has testing either employees or itscitizens at large.QUESTION: But if -- if that is the case, whatis the danger in the school case, comparable to the -- tothe railroad worker's danger or the -- the customsofficer's danger? What is the danger as distinct fromsimply the desire to deter illegal drug use? MR. CLEMENT: I think the danger is this. Imean, it -- and I think Von Raab actually is -- is anexcellent counterpoint. This Court in Von Raab said thatyou could test the customs official because they are onthe front line of the drug problems on the supply side. Ithink by parity of reasoning, children today are on thefront lines of the drug problem, but on the demand side. The evidence shows that if you can stop children fromusing drugs before their th birthday, they're not likelyto start using drugs after that --QUESTION: But if --QUESTION: The danger is getting young peopleused to a drug culture. You're raising young people inschool. And the -- the specific danger is unlike withadults. You're forming -- you're forming their habits forthe rest of their life.MR. CLEMENT: I agree with that, Justice Scalia, th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC and I would -- I would add that this is not the onlycontext where -- where the Federal Government hasrecognized that difference. The penalties for dealingdrugs in a school area or selling drugs to a minor aremuch more substantial than those selling drugs to adults.QUESTION: I think that's hardly a revelationthat the Government is concerned about what drugs do toour culture. MR. CLEMENT: Absolutely, and I think it'sperfectly --QUESTION: It's not exactly rocket science, isit?MR. CLEMENT: No, and -- and I don't think it'srocket science also to say that that -- that concern isparticularly acute with respect to the youngest and mostvulnerable members of society. And as I say, if you lookat U.S.C. , , , all of those provisions putadded penalties on someone who deals drugs involvingchildren. Thank you. QUESTION: Thank you, Mr. Clement. Mr. Boyd, we'll hear from you.ORAL ARGUMENT OF GRAHAM A. BOYDON BEHALF OF THE RESPONDENTSMR. BOYD: Mr. Chief Justice, and may it please th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC the Court:Opposing counsel said we have to draw the linesomewhere, and the -- the way to draw the line in thiscase is to keep in mind the core principle thatindividualized reasonable suspicion is the standard forschool searches set forth in T.L.O. If there's going tobe a line as to where do we go past that standard, whilestill retaining the core of T.L.O. --QUESTION: There was no individualized suspicionin Vernonia. MR. BOYD: There -- there was not, and Vernoniais the exception. QUESTION: Well, so -- so there goes yourprinciple. MR. BOYD: Vernonia is the exception to theT.L.O. rule. It didn't -- it did not overrule T.L.O. What Vernonia said is that in certain specialcircumstances, that rule would be set aside. The key --QUESTION: You can have medical -- metaldetectors in schools where they're afraid the childrenhave guns?MR. BOYD: Yes, they can. QUESTION: Now, there's no individualizedsuspicion there, is there? MR. BOYD: No, there's not, and the reason -- th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC QUESTION: Can we take throat swabs if you feelthat there is a contagious disease? MR. BOYD: Throat swabs if you think there's acontagious disease. I'm not --QUESTION: I was trying to -- well, that's whatI -- I raised that because, of course, everyone is makinga criminal analogy, but nobody is arrested here. MR. BOYD: Well --QUESTION: Nobody is arrested. This iscounseling. It's an effort to deal with the demand sideof drugs, and -- and I just wonder. That's why I'm -- I'm raising, right at the beginning, the question of whetherthis individualized suspicion is the correct model toapply.MR. BOYD: Well, unless the Court stands readyto overrule T.L.O., I believe it is the standard. I thinkwhat's behind your question, Justice Breyer, is -- is aquestion about intrusiveness of the search. Obviously,there is a difference between the passive --QUESTION: Well, I mean, it's absolutely clearthere isn't individualized suspicion, so you winautomatically if that's the test, I would think. MR. BOYD: Well --QUESTION: And, of course, it wasn't inVernonia. I would think it wouldn't be in certain th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC instances in the school like guns. And so, rather thanjust start off, as you did, assuming that that's it, I'dlike to hear some argument for it. MR. BOYD: Of -- of course. Let -- let me tryto set up what -- what I see as -- as basically how youmove from the general rule of T.L.O. to the exception ofVernonia.In order to set aside that core Fourth Amendmentprinciple, I think there has to be some nexus to aproblem, some connection that is demonstrated to a problemeither, and preferably both, in terms of safety and druguse. Both of those are missing here. The reason thisschool expanded its initial policy from athletes toinclude non-athletes was because it wanted to appearevenhanded. Now, that's not a value that this Court hasrecognized in the -- in the special needs context. Theydidn't want to stigmatize the athletes alone through thedrug test, so they said, who else can we get? Theirlawyers said, well, the Seventh Circuit said you can getthe non-athletes, and so they expanded it. But let's look at the safety rationale here. Now, in Vernonia, the school board said up front, this isabout the safety of our athletes, and that's why we'redoing it. In this case, the school board's testimony and th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC the testimony of everyone else who has been -- who's --who's testified is that safety is not a reason for thistest. There is nothing about the band or the choir thatis dangerous. And this is a very important too that we did notmake in our briefs I want to bring out. In Vernonia, thedrug test was for in-season athletic activities. Whileyou're playing football, you're drug tested. They wereconcerned about that. In this case, they test year in,year out. If you look at page of the joint appendix,the policy itself says it is in season and out season. So, there's nothing about the activities of Lindsay Earlsin the choir, who's here today, not a drug user -- there'snothing about her activities in the choir that requiresher being drug tested. QUESTION: But the choir is presumably a year-round thing in a way that football is not. MR. BOYD: No, it's not, Your Honor. All ofthese activities have competitive seasons, and thecompetition is what triggers the drug testing. It's quiteclear that in the academic team, choir, band, all of theseactivities, they are participating at a certain point, andyet they are drug tested throughout the year. QUESTION: Are you saying that, for instance,choir in Tecumseh is only in the fall? th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC MR. BOYD: The --QUESTION: Or only in the winter or only in thespring? MR. BOYD: Yes, Your Honor, in terms of thecompetitions, they are. There's a class which -- whichthey are very clear, it is not the reason that drugtesting takes place, and someone who's merely in the classis not drug tested. But if you go out for the team, as itwere, which competes during a limited season, then you aredrug tested, although it is for the entire year. So,again, it's not the activities of the choir competitionthat are of concern to the school. QUESTION: Well, give me the quote. Whichseason of the four seasons is for band in Tecumseh? MR. BOYD: I honestly don't know what months ofthe year they compete in, and -- and in rebuttal, if I'mwrong, I'm --QUESTION: They can't be for all four seasons, Iguess. But --MR. BOYD: Excuse me?QUESTION: -- let me -- let me ask you this. What -- what they're -- what they're trying to do is tofind a basis on which they can implement a program whichhas an element of consent to it. The Government does not th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC think that's necessary, but that's the case that we havebefore us. And so, what the school district has done hastaken a set of programs and they said, this is a surrogatefor consent, and that's what's happening here. This -- I-- I think this goes beyond Vernonia.MR. BOYD: Right. QUESTION: But we take cases as they come to us,and in this case, it is clear that the student who is --is so offended by the idea of a search and does not careabout the school district's policy of ensuring that drugsare school-free doesn't need to participate in theextracurricular activity. That's their choice. MR. BOYD: Well, Justice Kennedy, you'reabsolutely right. That's the position here. And frankly,I think that's what it comes down to for them. They don'thave the safety rationale. They don't have the drug userationale. And -- and I would actually point to the -- toyour concurrence in the Ferguson case where you -- whereyou, albeit briefly, survey the special needs in drugtesting jurisprudence and point out that in all of thosecases, the activity was, in a sense, consensual orvoluntary. I mean, this goes back to Justice Scalia'squestion in -- in the initial round, too. If you want todrive a train, if you want to be a customs agent, if you th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC want to be a football player in Vernonia, if you want torun for office in Chandler, these are all activities whichyou're perfectly free to not do. Now, maybe that weighsinto the balance, the constitutional reasonablenessbalance, somewhat but it certainly is not dispositive. And when that's all you have, when there isn't the historyof drug use, when there isn't a safety rationale, when allyou have is this, then it's nothing. Now, I think also I need to --QUESTION: It -- it seems to me if a school isbetter than other school districts insofar as drug use,they have less drug use, that they're maybe entitled tokeep it that way. MR. BOYD: Well --QUESTION: You seem to say not. You seem to saythere has to be some great crisis where we lose a coupleyears of kids to drugs, and then we -- and then we move. National statistics just don't support that. MR. BOYD: Well, there -- there are a couple ofthings. I mean, first of all, the -- the crisisnationally of drug abuse is one that certainly we need tobe concerned about, and I think Justice O'Connor is rightto point out that the pediatricians, along with the publichealth social workers and teachers, all say that thispolicy of setting up barriers for extracurricular th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC activities is actually counterproductive. It promotesdrug use and other dangerous activities. But let me get to precisely the question thatyou're asking, too. This is a school that has in placecameras in the halls, security guards, drug dogs thatsweep through the school and the -- and the parking lotand the students. They search lockers. They haveteachers who are trained in looking for drug use. Theyhave all of these things in place, and they have amandatory reporting policy that if they discover any druguse, they have to report it. Now, over the years, that'sadded up to two instances of drugs being found, none ofthem associated with non-athletes, none of them associatedwith extracurricular activities.QUESTION: Yes, but they have a record herethat, of course, suggests if you want to know if drugs aregoing on in your school, you ask the kids. You don't findthem because nobody is stupid enough to take them into theschool. But it's all around and they use them. And herethey ask the kids, and the teachers ask the kids, and theysay, sure, there's a lot of drug use going on over in thepark, at parties. That's the record that I saw.MR. BOYD: Well --QUESTION: And I don't really see how that -- Imean, you know, you might be able to drive a millimeter of th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC light between that and Vernonia.MR. BOYD: Well --QUESTION: So, go ahead and try. But I -- Ican't --(Laughter.) QUESTION: I mean, I -- I -- they did what Iwould have done. I would have asked my children what'sreally going on in this school, and they get a positiveresponse when it's a question of drugs. MR. BOYD: Justice Breyer, I -- I think you'reright. I'm going to go ahead and try. But I thinkthere's -- I think there's an important distinction here. What the kids said in this case is, to the extent there'sdrug use going on, who's doing it? It's not the choir andthe band and so forth. And I think that that's critical.I think that the jurisprudence of this Court inlooking at when do you set aside individualized suspicion,it says there has to be that connection between --QUESTION: Why? Now, I --MR. BOYD: Why.QUESTION: Of course, if I read the cases, as Ido, and they logically require you to win, that's the end. You win. MR. BOYD: Sure. QUESTION: But just in case it's open -- th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC (Laughter.) QUESTION: -- I would like to know why. I takeit they've given you some reasons why they've limited it. One, these are the school leaders and maybe it'll spread. MR. BOYD: Sure. QUESTION: Two, we don't want to put thestudent, although we'd really like to, to the choice ofschool versus drug testing. We'll put him to the choiceof extracurricular versus drug testing. It's a little bitbetter. Okay. That's their reason. Now, what do you say?MR. BOYD: Well, I -- I mean, I think what'sperhaps behind your question is a little bit of what's thelaw and why is the law that way and a little bit of whythe policy --QUESTION: I'll tell you what's behind thequestion. What's behind the question is that I thinkundoubtedly you're right, that this is a slight expansionof Vernonia. You want to say a lot. They'll say hardlyany. So, it's hard for me to see why, if I came out oneway in Vernonia, I'd come out differently here. Andthat's what I want you to --MR. BOYD: Okay, fair enough. I -- I think thequestion is where do you want to put your focus. If yourfocus is solely on is there evidence of drug use in the th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC high school alone, then the difference here I think isstill very important. In Vernonia, you had athletes whowere skipping class and being arrested. You had peoplesmoking marijuana across the street in plain view. You'vegot none of that here. I think there is that difference. But I think that also I would ask you to focussomewhere different than what is the overall generalproblem. I would say that if you take seriously the ideaof the nexus, or connection, being there in order to takewhat is a serious step from individualized suspicion toblanket intrusive search, I would say you have to look atwhat are the reasons for picking this group. Is it simplyto be fair to the athletes where a problem may exist, oris it -- which is the case here, or is it because there'sa problem here, which is certainly not the case here. And there's another difference too, JusticeBreyer, which I think is absolutely critical. InVernonia, that was a school where discipline was out ofcontrol. Discipline throughout the school jurisprudenceof this Court has been a critical factor. In Vernonia, itwas a school that said, quote, we don't have a major drugproblem for many years, just like this school. But thenin the space of or years, they said, disciplinereferrals have increased by almost threefold. Teachersare threatening to quit. We're thinking about mass th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC expulsion of the students. We can't keep control of thisschool. Now, if you look what this school has said, bycontrast, let me refer you to the joint appendix. Intheir Federal reports, they say -- now, I'm not talkingabout the drug use here. I'm talking about discipline. They say on page , minimal problems have beenexperienced due to violent safety and discipline problems. That's right in the middle. And in the very last sentenceon that page --QUESTION: I don't understand the point of thisargument, counsel. I mean, is -- is the only reasonschools want to prevent drug use is that they have unrulyclassrooms when they have drug use? I should think thatis the least of the reasons to prevent drug use. MR. BOYD: Well, it --QUESTION: And -- and what I miss in yourargument is any recognition of the fact that we aredealing here with minors. I mean, you're talking hereabout a search rather than a seizure, but in the case ofminors, you can keep them, in effect, imprisoned afterschool, can you not, if they haven't done their homeworkor something else? The school is standing in locoparentis. It is trying to train and raise these youngpeople to be responsible adults. And I think that -- it's th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC a -- it's a world of difference from -- from what -- fromwhat the State can do with regard to adults.MR. BOYD: Let -- let me -- let me do twothings, if I may, Justice Scalia. Let me just quote thelast sentence of what I was about to say and then I -- andthen, if I may have your permission to address the in locoparentis argument, because there's a good answer to that.In terms of the discipline argument, JusticeBreyer, what the school said is we don't have thatproblem, and in the last sentence, the discipline policiesin place at each site have been effective in dealing withthe problems. So, I think if one of the things, maybe notthe only thing, Justice Scalia, but if one of the thingswe care about is can the kids learn here, is this a schoolenvironment that is conducive to learning and safety anddiscipline, Tecumseh High School has that in hand withtheir cameras and guards and dogs and everything else. They don't need this policy. Especially they don't needit for Lindsay Earls. I mean, if they want to voluntarilytest all the students, they apparently will get many ofthem, but why should we force Lindsay Earls to -- to giveup her privacy as part of that?QUESTION: You're willing to rest your case onthe proposition that the only valid basis for conductingdrug searches is to -- is to enable the school to maintain th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC discipline.MR. BOYD: No, no. QUESTION: So long as you have a bunch adruggies who are orderly in class, the school can take noaction. Is -- is that what you want us to --MR. BOYD: Absolutely not. Given that we havehere a school that has not only discipline in hand, butalso drug use itself in hand, especially among theseactivities, which themselves aren't dangerous, it seems itadds up to me the mirror image of Vernonia. But let me address your point, Justice Scalia,about in loco parentis.QUESTION: Except for one point that was made inVernonia, and it does go across the board, and that wasthe statement that drug testing on suspicion, which is thealternative, because in life, it's everything as comparedto what. So, if we didn't have the -- the random testing,it would be on individual suspicion. And the point wasmade there that if you had -- if you treated the childrenthat way, you would transform this random process intowhat the opinion author called a badge of shame, and thatit might be worse the risk of singling out thetroublesome, but not drug likely student, the one that theteacher -- the one that's always the bad boy in the classand diverts the teachers -- th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC MR. BOYD: Right. QUESTION: -- who are engaged in that exercisefrom the job of teaching to being a police officer.MR. BOYD: Justice Ginsburg, there's a goodanswer to that question. Let me focus on the facts ofthis case, as they come to this Court. This is a schoolthat already has not had this problem of pointing thefinger of -- of accusation at students, although it coulddo that with its drug dogs and locker searches andeverything else. When it gets a student for whom there issome suspicion of drug use, say, a -- a drug dog hits on astudent who could easily have had dad's beer spilled onthe -- on the sleeve. That will make a drug dog alert. That student is then questioned. That already happens inthis school. But there's also a key point that I think wasmissed in that -- in that discussion in Vernonia, which isthat even if -- whichever way you rule in this case,suspicion-based drug testing can and will go forward inthis and many other schools. So, even if you have ablanket policy, if there is, say, some malicious teacherout there who wants to -- to pick out Johnny becauseJohnny is acting bad and -- and put that badge of shame onhim, she or he can certainly do that. I don't think thatthat is a reason to go ahead with the policy that doesn't th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC have a basis in the safety, discipline, or drug userationales.Now, Justice Scalia, I'm feeling like I'm notgetting to the in loco parentis question, and I do becausethe -- the short answer is, I believe the brief by theparents, the amicus brief -- Jean Burkett is the lead one-- really engages this question in a very vigorous andintelligent manner. And what they say is this. In locoparentis is a doctrine that does not say the school is theparent, can take over from the parent. The parent stillretains certain roles, and the parents in this community-- a good number of the parents in this community say Iwant to raise my kid and I've succeeded so far in raisingmy kid by having open communication where they can come tome and talk and we will -- and we will have that trustthere. The school has interfered with that relationshipby forcing me, the parent, to sign off on this drug test,which is a different way of raising kids. QUESTION: Well, but the in loco parentisargument works against you there too because in locoparentis also indicates that all children are forced to goto this school.MR. BOYD: Yes. QUESTION: And we have to accept that a majorityof the parents want to make sure that those children are th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC in a drug-free atmosphere. MR. BOYD: In --QUESTION: And they have -- they -- you seem tome to be disparaging about police dogs and lockersearches, and maybe that's what you're going to challengenext. But what the -- what -- what the school board hassaid is that this is a necessary and effective policy, andthat's -- that's all it said. MR. BOYD: Justice --QUESTION: And there are rights of otherchildren who want to go to a school which is drug-free, ifthey can. MR. BOYD: Absolutely, Justice Kennedy.QUESTION: And it seems to me that's part of inloco parentis too because those students are required togo the school just as -- as the drug user is. MR. BOYD: You're absolutely right about that,and please don't hear me to be disparaging of those othertools because those are tools that do not include ablanket intrusive search, which is the principle that's atissue here. And I actually applaud this school forbeing --QUESTION: Well, why does it make difference whyyou applaud it or not? MR. BOYD: Oh, it probably doesn't. It probably th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC doesn't. question. QUESTION: We're talking about a constitutionalMR. BOYD: It -- it does. But -- but the pointI'm trying to make is that -- is that these other tools,which they have the legal right to use, are being usedsuccessfully. In loco parentis I think comes into play whenyou have a school like Vernonia where, as -- as you putit, Justice Kennedy, the rights of the other students,their ability to get an education and to themselves staydrug-free is being interfered with. Now, if we weretalking about the Vernonia school --QUESTION: Are you saying that the in locoparentis principle does not apply in the case of a schoolif a minority of parents object to what the school isdoing?MR. BOYD: That's not my position.QUESTION: Well, I thought that was what youwere saying a moment ago? MR. BOYD: Let -- let me please try to be moreclear about that. It depends on what the issue is andwhat's happening in the school. When there is an issue ofschool discipline, say, in the Fraser case or theHazelwood case, where you had student conduct that was in th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC a sense -- well, certainly had -- had a element ofconnection to constitutional protection, but yet affectedthe rights of other students to be able to learn in thatenvironment, then --QUESTION: Well, how did -- how does Hazelwoodfit that description? MR. BOYD: Well, because of the disruption thatcould be caused by the -- by the school paper articles. My -- my point is that where disruption --QUESTION: I don't think the reason in Hazelwoodwas -- where the discipline was justified was -- causeddisruption, but because when you're learning in school,you follow the instructions of the teacher. MR. BOYD: Well, and also the form issue. Imean, I -- I think that's certainly there and I don't -- I-- I brought this upon myself by bringing up the case, butI hope --for that. QUESTION: You did, yes. (Laughter.) MR. BOYD: I did. I did. I did and I apologizeBut my point is that the in loco parentisdoctrine more broadly comes into play when the rights ofthe student who says, I want to -- or the minority comesinto conflict with -- with the environment of the school th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC of learning and discipline. And that's -- that was thecase in Vernonia. That's not the case here. And it'scertainly not the case if you think of it in terms of therights of the student --QUESTION: Now, say again why you -- you thinkthe Vernonia situation, with respect to this point, isdifferent than the Tecumseh. MR. BOYD: Sure. It's -- it's really the pointI was making to Justice Breyer about discipline in theschool. Vernonia had convincingly shown and the districtcourt found that there was a discipline problem that wasout of control that was directly tied to drug use byathletes. They wanted to address this problem by goingafter the thing that was connected to it. Now, this is a school that doesn't have any ofthat. It doesn't have the discipline problem. It doesn'thave the drug use.QUESTION: Well, but that -- that question hasbeen batted back and forth -- you're -- you're not saying,are you, that unless the school has the sort of disciplineproblem they had in Vernonia, it can't do this?MR. BOYD: No, I'm not. No, I'm not, although Ithink that when you have neither a discipline problem nora drug use problem among the tested students, nor a safetyamong the students tested, I don't see how you get within th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC Vernonia at all unless Vernonia sort of quietly,implicitly said what we really meant to say was drug testeverybody because those principles do apply to all million secondary school students in this Nation. And soI don't --QUESTION: May I ask on the drug test? If youhad a choice, in terms of which is the -- I understand youthink this is clearly unconstitutional. Would it be moreunconstitutional or less unconstitutional to testeverybody? MR. BOYD: I'm not really sure that one can --can rank more and less constitutional. Both seem to meplainly unconstitutional. The only constitutional way togo beyond individualized reasonable suspicion is toidentify a problem in a school and devise a solution thathas a close nexus to that particular problem, and thatcertainly isn't the case here. Let me put that a little bit differently,Justice Stevens.QUESTION: Of course, Justice Scalia would --would respond by saying, well, everybody knows there's apotential problem in every school in the country, andthat's enough. And why isn't that an effective argument? MR. BOYD: It's not -- it's not enough becausewhat I would say is that it is really that the balancing th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC test behind the Fourth Amendment reasonablenessrequirement becomes one where there's no weight on oneside of the -- of the balance. That's a little vague, solet me --QUESTION: Why is that? Now, they've come inwith a brief on the other side and said, you know, despitethe fact that we're spending X billion dollars, two-thirdsof which goes on the supply side for interdiction --MR. BOYD: Right. QUESTION: -- demand has stayed constant amongteenagers, and it's about to percent of all of thechildren in these high schools who take drugs. Now, ifyou know that that is a fact, why is it -- and if you knowthis is a typical high school, why isn't that enough to dojust what you said would be constitutional, to say here'sa particular problem, to percent of the kids aretaking drugs, and we want to come in with a solutionthat's tailored to that? MR. BOYD: Well, it's -- you know, the number isprobably, according to Mr. Clement, is more like percent, and -- and that percent of -- of the kids inthe high schools are using drugs. QUESTION: All right. Then it's much worse thanI thought. MR. BOYD: And -- th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC (Laughter.) QUESTION: And then if that -- if that's fine,then -- then there is the problem you talked about, whichI just heard you say. And so, if -- you said if there's aproblem of a serious sort, and that this is tailored tothat problem, they can do it. All right. So then whycouldn't they do this on that theory? MR. BOYD: Well, if it's percent nationally,this school in its reports to the Federal Government saysthat its school-wide drug use based on its own surveys,which is where the national data comes from, surveys, is percent. percent. QUESTION: All right, percent. I mean, maybe-- maybe they exaggerated in that report. I guess I'dhave to take the finding of the district court here, andwhen I read the district court opinion, I thought thedistrict judge thought it was a fairly serious problem. MR. BOYD: Well --QUESTION: He didn't put numbers on it. MR. BOYD: Right, he did not. QUESTION: But you used the word seriousproblem. So --MR. BOYD: Okay. What -- what I wanted to say,Justice Breyer, is this. If you take the school at theirown word, that their data shows that it's at percent, th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC and you take the school board president and all threeteachers at their word in saying, to the extent that thatdrug use -- that percent is there, it tends not to beamong these activities, and if you take this Courtseriously in articulating a nexus test, there simply isnot a nexus between choosing these non-athletes who, bothin terms of school versus Nation and the non-athletes andthe school versus the other students, are reallyexceptionally unlikely to be using drugs. It's a terriblypoor --QUESTION: Now, in your opinion a school thatdid find that it was within, let's say, half the average,say percent or percent, and they did feel that asignificant number of their extracurricular activitystudents were involved in that, if -- if they've heardthat through hearsay or any other way that was reasonablyplausible for policy makers, they could then do this inyour opinion. MR. BOYD: No, they could not because therestill is a need for a safety rationale. There is not asingle case in which drug testing has been upheld by anycourt, outside of this line of cases for extracurricularnon-athletes.QUESTION: Well, what was the safety rationalewith golfers in Vernonia? th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC MR. BOYD: Well, the safety rationale -- I mean,certainly the Court in Vernonia didn't talk about golfersone way or another, but --QUESTION: Well, but you're -- you're sayingthat Vernonia was based on a safety rationale. Itstesting included golfers. MR. BOYD: Well, in Vernonia, the Court talkedat some length about the safety rationale. JusticeKennedy, in his -- in his Ferguson concurrence, alsodescribed the Vernonia holding as -- as being aboutstudents who are athletes and face these danger risks. Now, reasonableness, Your Honor --reasonableness -- it does need to turn in the end on somekind of reasonable line drawing. I think it wasreasonable for the Court to say in Vernonia, the line thatwas drawn by Vernonia among athletes, the vast majority ofwhom are doing things that, if not involving physicalcontact, certainly involve exertion of the court, that inthe opinion of the Court could cause death. Death waswhat was -- the word that was used by this Court. Also,in Skinner, death from train accidents; in Von Raab, deathfrom misguided bullets. Those were the stakes in thosecases. Here you've got a choir. QUESTION: How about death from overdose? th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC MR. BOYD: Death from overdose is certainly aconcern, but there's no --QUESTION: I mean, do you think life and deathis -- is really not involved in -- in the fight againstdrugs?MR. BOYD: It absolutely is, Justice Scalia, and-- and where there's --QUESTION: Let's not minimize that.MR. BOYD: I don't mean to, and where there isevidence of drug use among a group of students, then I --QUESTION: As far as -- as far as the extent ofthe drug use is concerned, this is an elected schoolboard, isn't it? MR. BOYD: It is. QUESTION: Why -- why should I trust yourassessment of how serious the drug problem is and whatmeasures are reasonable to counter that -- thatseriousness over the assessment of -- of the localcitizens who -- who elect their school board, and theirschool board says we have a big enough problem that wewant to use this draconian measure? MR. BOYD: Well, I think if we listen to theschool board and to the school administration, whothemselves are even closer to that problem, what they sayis, we've identified enough of a problem that initially we th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC want to test our athletes. And they directed Mr. Jacobsto go off and draft a policy for athletes. He did so. They came back and he said, you know, we feel kind of badabout stigmatizing our athletes. Who else can we test? Now, that's not identifying a drug problem. In fact, the best evidence in this case is whatthe school itself says to the Federal Government where theFederal Government says, now, remember these reports, whenthey write them, they say, tell us what you know, notbased on just sort of vague evidence, but tell us what youreally know about drug use, do some surveys, ask somequestions, look around. The school did that, and over thecourse of a number of years, they said consistentlyexactly what Vernonia said back before it had a problem. We don't have any --QUESTION: Suppose -- suppose the schooldistrict said, we're going to have two schools and you cango to either one. One, they don't have dogs or -- ortests or anything else. It's the druggie school. (Laughter.) QUESTION: And -- and the other school -- andthe other school is they have mandatory testing foreverybody. Would that be constitutional? And then yourclient could go to the druggie school.MR. BOYD: I don't think so because I think even th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC by the nature of that hypothetical, it presupposes one ofthe schools is going to be vastly inferior on a number ofgrounds. there. QUESTION: Vastly experience why? MR. BOYD: Excuse me? QUESTION: Why? Because there are drug usersMR. BOYD: Well, I -- I think -- no, I don'tthink that's the reason why. I think --QUESTION: No parent -- no parent would -- wouldsend the child to the first school that I suggested, otherthan perhaps your client wants to go there. (Laughter.) MR. BOYD: Well, she absolutely would not, YourHonor. I mean, Lindsay Earls is -- is a young woman, afreshman at Dartmouth now, who hasn't used drugs. She wasdrug tested and she passed, and no one has suspected herof using drugs. I'm sure my -- my opposing counsel wouldattest to that. QUESTION: Can -- can -- doesn't -- don't magnetschools have rules for uniforms and so forth that they're-- they're completely optional? A school district couldhave two schools, one with -- one with no testing, theother with testing. Then you have a choice. MR. BOYD: I think uniforms are a world apart. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC There's not an intrusive blanket search. QUESTION: Well, they're not covered by theFourth Amendment. MR. BOYD: Exactly. QUESTION: I mean, isn't that the problem? MR. BOYD: It is. QUESTION: What do you -- do you say justfrankly to the argument, forget individualized need,forget special need entirely, forget suspicion? We'restanding in loco parentis and if we think it's reasonableto do it, we can do it. What's the answer to thatargument? MR. BOYD: I -- I think the answer to theargument is the Fourth Amendment turns on reasonableness. It's not a majority rules standard. And I think you haveto look at the incremental intrusion here, and this is apoint that I don't think has been made today. But withschool athletes, they already submit a urine sample.QUESTION: That doesn't answer the question. The question -- yes, it turns on reasonableness, but whatJustice Souter's question suggests is that the -- theissue is whether it would be reasonable for a parent who'sconcerned about drug use on the part -- on the part of hischildren, to be this intrusive. That is the question. MR. BOYD: For a parent to do it -- I -- well, I th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC see that my time is up. May I --QUESTION: Yes. I extend your time by seconds.MR. BOYD: Thank you. A parent can do many things that are differentthan what a school could do. The fact that a parent coulddo a drug test is exactly the reason -- and in Tecumsehthey could do that. That is not a reason for a school todo it in circumstances where there is not a demonstratedproblem among the students who were being tested with a --with a solution that's actually tailored in any reasonablefashion to meet that problem. Otherwise --QUESTION: Thank you, Mr. Boyd. Ms. Meoli, you have minute remaining. MS. MEOLI: Mr. Chief Justice, if there are nofurther questions, I'll waive the remainder of my time.CHIEF JUSTICE REHNQUIST: Very well. The case is submitted. (Whereupon, at : a.m., the case in theabove-entitled matter was submitted.) th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC 