 IN THE SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -XBEN CHAVEZ, Petitioner ::v. : No. -OLIVERIO MARTINEZ. :- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -XWashington, D.C.Wednesday, December , The above-entitled matter came on for oralargument before the Supreme Court of the United States at: a.m.APPEARANCES:LAWRENCE S. ROBBINS, ESQ., Washington, D.C.; on behalfof the Petitioner.PAUL D. CLEMENT, ESQ., Deputy Solicitor General,Department of Justice, Washington, D.C.; on behalf ofthe United States, as amicus curiae, supporting thePetitioner. RICHARD S. PAZ, ESQ., Los Angeles, California; on behalfof the Respondent. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC C O N T E N T SORAL ARGUMENT OF LAWRENCE S. ROBBINS, ESQ.On behalf of the Petitioner PAUL D. CLEMENT, ESQ.On behalf of the United States, as amicus curiae, supporting the Petitioner RICHARD S. PAZ, ESQ.On behalf of the Respondent REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OFLAWRENCE S. ROBBINS, ESQ.On behalf of the Petitioner PAGE th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC P R O C E E D I N G S(: a.m.)JUSTICE STEVENS: We'll hear argument inNumber -, Chavez against Martinez.Mr. Robbins, whenever you're prepared, you mayproceed.ORAL ARGUMENT OF LAWRENCE S. ROBBINSON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONERMR. ROBBINS: Thank you, Justice Stevens, andmay it please the Court:The Ninth Circuit held in this case thatpetitioner Ben Chavez could not assert a qualifiedimmunity defense to a section lawsuit alleging thathis interrogation of respondent violated the Fifth andFourteenth Amendments. We believe that ruling to be mistaken. First, there was no constitutional violation atall on these facts. But second, if there was aconstitutional right implicated, that right was notclearly established in the particularized sense requiredby this Court's qualified immunity cases. Officer Chavezcould not reasonably have known that what he was doingviolated that right, and the judgment of the Ninth Circuitshould, therefore, be reversed. QUESTION: May I ask this question on that point th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC that you addressed before you get through? Supposing hethought at the time of the questioning that thematerial -- the answers would be used in evidence lateron, and he knew that it would have been a violation of theConstitution to use those answers later on. Would he beentitled to qualified immunity then? MR. ROBBINS: Yes, because the Constitution --well, because the first inquiry would be has theConstitution been violated. Whether he thought --QUESTION: But your -- I'm just directing myquestion at -- you sort of said even assuming aconstitutional violation, he nevertheless is entitled togood faith immunity. And I'm saying, well, assume the --the facts I've just granted, including an assumption thatthe -- it would have been a constitutional violation to use the evidence. MR. ROBBINS: Well, I think -- I think the --the answer is that while -- while he might have believedthat the Constitution would in time be violated, becausehe could not himself violate it, he couldn't -- hecouldn't be liable under section for committing aFifth Amendment violation. So the point is you don't evenget to the question of clearly established if there's noestablished constitutional violation at all. QUESTION: But we -- we do somehow extend the th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC Fifth Amendment protection to the period before the actualintroduction of the evidence in a criminal trial. That isto say, we -- we permit a witness to refuse to answerunless the witness is given -- is given immunity fromprosecution. Now, how do you explain that, unless somehowthe Fifth Amendment has some antecedent application beforethe evidence is actually --MR. ROBBINS: Well --QUESTION: -- introduced at trial?MR. ROBBINS: I -- I think you've put it exactlyright. It has some antecedent application. That is tosay, it applies prior to the moment at which it's actuallyviolated. The premise is we need to ensure against -- ina way it's a prophylactic protection much like Miranda is. That is to say, we will let you assert it in what is concededly, for example, a civil litigation setting, asimple deposition. No one would suggest that that is ause in a criminal case. But we allow you to assert itbecause if we didn't, it would compromise your ability toensure that the right is protected later.QUESTION: Well, suppose in a civil case, thejudge orders the witness confined to custody until hetestifies in violation of what we can say in commonparlance is his Fifth Amendment right to self-incrimination. Is that not a violation then and there th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC to -- to confine the -- the defendant until he testifies?MR. ROBBINS: I think it is consistent with abody of well -- well-developed law that to penalizesomeone, particularly through that kind of a sanction, forthe assertion of a right is in the nature of a -- sort ofan unconstitutional condition. And there's a well-established body of law that says --QUESTION: I -- I don't know that we usuallytalk about a violation as an unconstitutional condition. We -- we would say, Your Honor, I want my client releasedbecause you are violating his Fifth Amendment rights.MR. ROBBINS: But I -- I --QUESTION: And I think in a very realistic --real sense you are. MR. ROBBINS: Yes. I -- I think there is a body of case law that says that if you are punished for theassertion of a right, then under the Constitution you canbe relieved of that coercion. However -- but let me be clear -- the actualviolation of the Fifth Amendment is exactly what the textof the Fifth Amendment says. It says that your right isnot to be a witness against yourself in a criminal case. I suggest, Justice Kennedy, that the result -- that theholding in Murphy against the Waterfront Commission isinexplicable if you believe, as the Ninth Circuit does, th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC that it is sufficient simply to coerce an otherwiseincriminating statement because in Murphy against theWaterfront Commission, the holding of that case is thatthe State court was correct in requiring the witness totestify even though there wasn't a statute that protectedhim against incrimination because the Fifth Amendmentitself provides the fail-safe that if you are coerced intogiving an otherwise incriminating statement, it cannot beused against you. And my central submission on the Fifth Amendmentpoint -- and of course, this is before we even get to thequestion whether Office Chavez could have -- you know, hasqualified immunity. Our central submission on this isthat you don't even have to get to that point because thefail-safe of the Fifth Amendment ensures that Mr. Martinez's statements could not be used against him ina criminal case if they were indeed legally compelled --QUESTION: What -- what in your opinion in theConstitution prevents a policeman from going and beatingup a witness? MR. ROBBINS: The Fourteenth Amendment. QUESTION: So, the Fourteenth Amendment meansthat you could -- in other words, your -- your clientcould have violated the Fourteenth Amendment if -- otherthings being equal -- th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC MR. ROBBINS: Well --QUESTION: -- because he was a witness. He getsat least -- at least the suspect --MR. ROBBINS: Yes. QUESTION: -- gets the same pre-trial protectionas a witness would, and the Fourteenth Amendment preventscoercion being used against a witness who doesn't want totestify.MR. ROBBINS: Well, let's be clear. It doesn'tprevent all coercion. It prevents a subset of coercionthat shocks the conscience for purposes of the -- thesubstantive component of due process.QUESTION: The substantive due process. MR. ROBBINS: Yes, Justice O'Connor. That'scorrect. But -- but I think it is important that we nottorture the language of the Fifth Amendment to accommodatethe worry that police officers will torture witnessesbecause that concern is completely -- can be completelyaccommodated, and routinely is in the courts of appeals,under the aegis of the --QUESTION: You're not saying -- those thingsthat would violate the Fifth Amendment weren't introducedinto trial do violate the Fourteenth Amendment for thesimilar reasons. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC MR. ROBBINS: I'm sorry.QUESTION: Well, I mean, could you say --MR. ROBBINS: Yes. QUESTION: -- that those things -- you could saythat. MR. ROBBINS: Yes. You -- you could say --QUESTION: All right. Then why didn't heviolate the Fourteenth Amendment? MR. ROBBINS: Well, he -- well, again, let me --I -- I want to answer that, but I -- I -- because this isa qualified immunity case, I always want to drop thefootnote that we have an extra layer of protection herearising from the fact that none of these propositionscould have been -- none of the propositions adverse to uscould plausibly be said to be clearly established within the right sense of the term. Getting to your question, Justice Breyer, he didnot violate the substantive component of the Due ProcessClause because that inquiry turns on a set of concerns,including did the acts shock the conscience. Were theycommitted with the intent to harm the witness in the senserequired by Sacramento against Lewis? The failure of the Ninth Circuit in this casewith respect to the substantive due process analysis wasthat it thought that any interrogation which would render th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC a statement involuntary and therefore inadmissible attrial must, therefore, give rise to a freestandingsubstantive due process claim, actionable and enforceableunder section . That's just wrong. QUESTION: Mr. Robbins, going back to the FifthAmendment self-incrimination privilege, I take it thethrust of your argument is that a police officer who failsto give Miranda warnings quite deliberately, doesn't sayyou have a right to remain silent, doesn't say any of therest of it, never commits a violation of unless anduntil there's attempt to use the information in court. Soyou can say, police officer, you're not required to giveMiranda warnings if we're not going to use this testimonyin court.MR. ROBBINS: I am saying -- I think the answer to that is yes. The -- the --QUESTION: So that the Miranda is -- is not anobligation of the police officer. MR. ROBBINS: I -- I respectfully beg to differ,and I -- I also think -- I must say, given the prominenceof the Miranda discussion in the respondent's brief and inthe green -- green brief supporting respondent, I believethe Miranda concerns in this case are an utter redherring, and let me say why.The sanction for the violation of Miranda is, in th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC fact, that the statements taken in violation of Mirandacannot be used in the direct case of the government. That's the penalty for Miranda, and if that happens, youget the statement struck in the direct case for thegovernment. QUESTION: But there -- you're saying there isno penalty. The penalty is you can't --MR. ROBBINS: I -- I think there is no penalty, but the suggestion that as a consequence, becauseyou don't have a freestanding section claim when theevidence never comes in, when the statement is neveroffered, the suggestion that that is therefore going tobe -- send a signal to police officers that they shouldviolate Miranda, you know, at their -- at their discretionI think is terribly mistaken, and for a very important reason and it's this: If you don't give Miranda warnings,you run a serious risk that the failure to give thosewarnings will be taken as part of the calculus under theFifth Amendment voluntariness inquiry. And a statementwhich is involuntary for Fifth Amendment purposes isunusable for any purpose at all, direct case, impeachment,derivative use. The government then has to put on aKastigar hearing to show that all of its evidence wasindependently derived, which is, as the Court said inKastigar, a heavy burden for the government to meet. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC It is a fool's errand I suggest, JusticeGinsburg -- a fool's errand -- to go about deliberatelyviolating Miranda simply because the violation will notcause -- give rise to a section violation. QUESTION: I -- I just have to tell you, I -- Ican see your -- your point on Miranda. Miranda is anexclusionary rule. But I'm not sure that all of the FifthAmendment is -- is treated in that way because of thequestions we've initially covered.MR. ROBBINS: Well --QUESTION: If -- if you beat the defendant toget the defendant -- to get the confession, it seems to methere's a very strong argument that that is a FifthAmendment violation --MR. ROBBINS: I think --QUESTION: -- A Self-incrimination Clauseviolation.MR. ROBBINS: I think -- respectfully, JusticeKennedy, I think there is a wealth of this Court -- thisCourt's cases that cannot be reconciled with theproposition that coercing a statement is enough by itselfto constitute a Fifth Amendment violation.QUESTION: All right. You -- I think you couldsay after -- after years or years of -- ofjurisprudence, policemen know they're not supposed to beat th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC up suspects or the -- the equivalent. And -- and you cansay, all right, at this point, I would think that doesshock the conscience for a policeman to beat a confessionout of somebody, and so I don't care if you call itFourteenth or Fifth. But then the question here would be, why inheaven's name, when the person is undergoing serious pain,or he thinks he's dying, where the doctors are saying, getout of here, et cetera, whatever they're saying, and hecontinues to press and then says, well, you're going toget your treatment after you confess -- not confess --after -- after you answer my question. What were youdoing? Then we'll treat you. He says, you want yourtreatment, you'd better -- you better say something,et cetera, et cetera. Why isn't that the equivalent of beating somebody up?MR. ROBBINS: Well, let me attempt, if -- if Imight, Justice Breyer, to -- to very quickly answerJustice Kennedy's question. I -- I think the belief thatthe Ninth Circuit held that it's enough under the FifthAmendment simply to coerce a statement that wouldotherwise be incriminating cannot be reconciled withMurphy and with the -- with Balsys, with the immunitycases, with all the cases that stand for the propositionthat so long as the use immunity has not been compromised, th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC you do not yet have a substantive Fifth Amendmentviolation.To turn, Justice Breyer, to your question, Iacknowledge that there is coercion in this case. Wedon't -- we don't blanch on that. There was coercion andthe facts of this case are tragic, but the -- but thereality is this. This officer was there to find out avery important piece of information under extraordinarilyexigent circumstances. QUESTION: Well, was this tried below with aFourteenth Amendment substantive due process claim?MR. ROBBINS: I don't know that it wasdenominated substantive due process. I think --QUESTION: Is that in the case? MR. ROBBINS: I --QUESTION: I mean, is it open to resolution onthat basis? MR. ROBBINS: There's -- there's no questionthat the Ninth Circuit decided a Fourteenth Amendment dueprocess question. I don't think they -- they labeled itsubstantive versus procedure. And indeed, as wesuggest --QUESTION: Well, if --MR. ROBBINS: -- they conflated the two.QUESTION: -- if -- if we think the facts here th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC show sufficient coercion to rise to the level of aviolation of substantive due process under the FourteenthAmendment, should the judgment be affirmed --MR. ROBBINS: No. QUESTION: -- but on a different basis?MR. ROBBINS: The judgment must be reversed,first, because there is not even a suggestion that theintent to harm requirement under Sacramento against Lewishas been satisfied. And under this -- in this kind of acase, you cannot have a substantive due -- due processviolation without that. No one before you today hasargued that that Sacramento against Lewis --QUESTION: What is -- what is the source of thesubstantive -- of the intentional harm requirement? MR. ROBBINS: Is that -- the source I -- I suggest is the -- the principles this Court articulated inSacramento against Lewis for police conduct that's takenin enormous haste where -- where there is not theopportunity for a second chance.But let me go -- there's a terribly importantthing, Justice O'Connor, I have not yet gotten to say inanswer to your question. The further and perhaps mostfundamental reason why it would be a mistake, Irespectfully suggest, to affirm this judgment, even on thedue process argument, is that this is a qualified immunity th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC case. So you must conclude not only that on balance thisrises to the shock-the-conscience standard, but that itdoes so with such remarkable clarity that it must havebeen surely apparent to this officer that he was violatingthat standard. You cannot find that on this record. The Ninth Circuit thought so because of Mincey,which is a fair trial and admissibility of evidence case,not a freestanding substantive due process case and whichhad all manner of important differences from the facts ofthis case, including an absence -- a total absence -- ofexigency.With the Court's permission --QUESTION: Exigency. May I ask you a questionabout that? You said the man was dying. This was theonly -- only chance. But there was an eyewitness, Flores, to this entire thing. Why wasn't it enough for thepolice, if they wanted some view other than the policeofficers who engaged in the -- in the shooting, just tointerview Flores? MR. ROBBINS: Well, I -- I think the recordsuggests that he was not a completely clear -- did nothave a completely clear view of the facts. But he's justone witness. This is the man who was there.QUESTION: Wouldn't he be a lot clearer than aman who -- who is -- who has been blinded, who has -- was th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC paralyzed, who's under heavy medication?MR. ROBBINS: Well, he -- he was the mostimportant non-police witness to these events, and Isuggest that the officer would have been derelict not tohave found out what happened from him, which is what hewas trying to do. And with the Court's permission, I'd like toreserve the balance of my time. QUESTION: Yes, you may do so, Mr. Robbins.Mr. Clement, we'll hear from you.ORAL ARGUMENT OF PAUL D. CLEMENTON BEHALF OF THE UNITED STATES,AS AMICUS CURIAE, SUPPORTING THE PETITIONERMR. CLEMENT: Thank you, Justice Stevens, andmay it please the Court:The Fifth Amendment privilege against self-incrimination safeguards the integrity of the criminaltrial process and ensures that an individual is notconvicted on the basis of a coerced confession. But the privilege against self-incrimination isnot a direct limit on the primary conduct of the lawenforcement officers. This is not to say that there areno substantive constitutional limits on what law officersmay do to obtain information or to secure a confession.But those limits are to be found in the Fourth Amendment th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC and in the law of substantive due process, not in theFifth Amendment self-incrimination privilege --QUESTION: So beating a prisoner to compel a --a statement is not a Fifth Amendment violation.MR. CLEMENT: That's right, Justice Kennedy. It's not a Fifth Amendment violation. It very well mightbe --QUESTION: But it could be a FourteenthAmendment violation. MR. CLEMENT: It very well -- Justice O'Connor,it very well could be a Fourteenth --QUESTION: And very likely would be. Is there some intent element in that for theshocks-the-conscience --MR. CLEMENT: Well, I think generally, at least as I understand this Court's decision in -- in Sacramentoagainst Lewis, in these kind of executive action contextswhere things are ongoing, I think there is some kind ofintent element. I think that --QUESTION: It's not enough, you think, to findthat the officer should have known that you couldn't askquestions in the manner that was done here under thesecircumstances, and that to proceed gives rise to aninference of intent.MR. CLEMENT: Well, I'm not sure how intent th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC would need to be proven in any particular case, but Iwould say the critical difference between the FifthAmendment inquiry and the Fourteenth Amendment inquiry,when it's -- when it's done in the context of theadmissibility of a coerced confession, is in that context,what the courts are taking into account is the effect onthe integrity of the trial process of using a coercedconfession. It's a different calculus, though, when you'retrying to regulate primary law enforcement conduct becauseit strikes me that not everything that a law enforcementofficer could do to coerce a confession -- there -- theremay be some acts that may be sufficiently problematic thatyou'd certainly want to keep the confession out of thetrial.QUESTION: What about the order of a trial judgein a civil case who orders the witness held in contemptand confined unless he testifies, and -- and there's avalid Fifth Amendment privilege that the judge isoverlooking? No Fifth Amendment violation there?MR. CLEMENT: No. I don't think there's a FifthAmendment -- I don't think there's a complete FifthAmendment violation. The courts intervene there toprotect the privilege. QUESTION: So, if you go in and you want a writ th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC of habeas corpus and you don't mention the FifthAmendment. MR. CLEMENT: You mention the Fifth Amendment,but I think the important thing is the Fifth Amendment inthis context works a -- a bit like the takings clause. And Justice Souter, for the opinion for the Court inBalsys, noted that the self-incrimination privilege isunusual because it's not purely and simply binding on thegovernment. It doesn't say that in all contexts, thegovernment cannot coerce confessions. What it says --QUESTION: Well, if there's a suit againsta judge in -- in this hypothetical case, what's -- what'sthe violation?MR. CLEMENT: Well, typically those cases havebeen dealt with on -- on habeas. And what I would say is --QUESTION: Suppose it's a suit.MR. CLEMENT: If there's a suit in thatcontext, I actually don't think a suit would lie inthat context.QUESTION: Why wouldn't there be a suitprovided that -- and I think this is the assumption ofJustice Kennedy's question -- provided that the witnesshad invoked the Fifth Amendment? There would be a action there because that is one at least of two instances th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC in which we allow the Fifth Amendment to have anapplication in anticipation. We say if he raises it, andthey don't come forward with immunity, we're not going tolet this entire process go forward to no avail sincenothing can ever be admitted in evidence anyway. The factis we -- the -- the rule allowing it to be raised inanticipation I suppose would be the predicate for liability here. That's not this case, but that -- thatwould be true in the -- in the case of the -- the civilexample that Justice Kennedy gave, wouldn't it?MR. CLEMENT: I think that's a very good point,Justice Souter, and the Court has also treated in thepenalty context --QUESTION: Well, is it good enough so that youconcede there would be liability there; i.e., that there would be a violation of the Fifth Amendment in thatcase?would --MR. CLEMENT: I don't think so, but I think itQUESTION: Not that good.MR. CLEMENT: -- at least be a better case.But as I was trying to say --QUESTION: Is there any violation in the casethat I put, any constitutional violation? I mean,that's -- that's extraordinary. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC MR. CLEMENT: There is a -- there is a --there -- what there is is there is an ongoing interferencewith the Fifth Amendment right that the courts willvindicate, but there isn't a complete constitutionalviolation. And I think the critical distinction is that,as -- as Justice Souter said for the Court in Balsys, theprivilege against self-incrimination is not purely andsimply binding on the government. The government cancompel testimony in exchange for a valid grant ofimmunity. What it can't do is compel testimony andattempt to use it in a criminal case. And --QUESTION: Well, maybe the -- the point where itwould make a difference I guess -- nobody is talking aboutweakening or overruling Miranda. We have Miranda on thebooks, and Miranda set some technical requirements. Youhave to give a warning. Now, a failure to give a warning,pure and simple, is not going to hurt anybody if that'snever used in trial, so there isn't damages, unlessyou beat the person up. Then there is. And that comesunder the Fourteenth. But there are a set of cases where it will hurtpeople. The set of cases where it will hurt people iswhere because they violated Miranda but didn't beat himup, and got a statement, they kept him in jail. That'srather like the case Justice Kennedy's thinking of. So th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC there he is in jail for a week or a month and he's beenhurt, all right. And the question I guess is -- it's really notthis case, but the question is, is there going to be a action in that kind of case? And if you say it comesunder the Fifth Amendment, the answer is going to be yes. And if you say it comes under the Fourteenth Amendment,the answer is going to be no. I don't know if weshould -- it seems to me what we're going to decide inthis case is effectively going to decide that.MR. CLEMENT: No. I don't think that's true. I think that, for one thing, if the person is imprisonedon some basis, that may raise an independent FourthAmendment violation. There may be other --QUESTION: Then he goes under the Fourth, and he claims he's wrongly seized and imprisoned because they gotthis statement out of him in violation of the Fifth. That's -- I mean, this is -- this is what's -- what'sworrying me is not so much this case, but what we're goingto write and the implications of it.MR. CLEMENT: And -- and I think that this Courthas already clarified in Balsys that what you need for aself-incrimination violation is both the coercion of thetestimony and the use of it in a criminal case.QUESTION: But may I just interrupt, th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC Mr. Clement? Supposing there's a witness, a reporter orsomebody, who claims a -- a privilege against divulginginformation, and that -- and the court holds him incontempt and locks him up for days or something, and heclaims he -- his Fifth Amendment right was violated, you'dsay there's no Fifth Amendment violation.MR. CLEMENT: I would say there's no -- there'sno damages action. Of course, he could get --QUESTION: So how could he get out of jail then?MR. CLEMENT: Well, he could get a habeas actionto get out because the court would be granting relief --QUESTION: Well, I -- I think --MR. CLEMENT: -- to protect the FifthAmendment --QUESTION: With all respect, I think you're evading the point that there -- let's assume there'sdamage. He's -- he's locked up, as Justice Breyer says,for days for not testifying, and you say there's noFifth Amendment violation. I can't understand that.MR. CLEMENT: Well, in any event, let me justsay that the privilege works quite differently in thecustodial context. The reason that hypo even comes up isthat in the context of a civil trial, the individual hasto raise the -- the Self-incrimination Clause themselves. And we have a different rule that operates in the context th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC of police custodial interrogation. In that context, theprivilege is self-executing. The individual doesn't haveto raise it. And -- as -- the other thing that's differentabout the custodial context is that in the custodialcontext, this Court has not insisted on a pre-testimonygrant of immunity. They've always held that theexclusionary rules prevent a constitutional violation fromoccurring.And if I could resort to the analogy to thetakings clause. In that context, it's not enough for thegovernment to take property. It's only a constitutionalviolation if the -- if the government simultaneously takesproperty and refuses to grant just compensation. In thesame way, there's no self --QUESTION: But are you saying that -- to go backto a question that was asked earlier, that if there -- ifthe police just take somebody into custody and beat him upin order to get -- get him to talk with no intention ofusing the evidence at all -- they're just trying toinvestigate a crime -- is there any constitutionalprotection against that kind of conduct?MR. CLEMENT: Yes, and it's the substantive dueprocess protection. QUESTION: Okay. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC MR. CLEMENT: And I think to get back to thatpoint, what's important is in the context of trying toprotect the integrity of the criminal trial process, Iwould think the courts would want to be quite carefulabout what they let into evidence. But in the context oflaw enforcement officers, they're dealing with otherobjectives than simply trying to get a confession tosecure a guilty verdict. QUESTION: Well, on the facts of this case,should it be analyzed then under the Fourteenth Amendmentfor coercion --MR. CLEMENT: It --QUESTION: -- an activity that might violate theFourteenth Amendment? MR. CLEMENT: I think it should, Justice O'Connor, and I would respectfully suggest that that'sbest done on remand --QUESTION: Yes.MR. CLEMENT: -- because, although there is adue process argument in this case, it's nobody's faultthat in light of the -- the governing precedent in theNinth Circuit, the Cooper decision, that nobody thoughtthat they had to prove shocks-the-conscience, or any ofthe factors relevant to a substantive due process inquiry. Again, that's not the way respondents briefed the case, th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC but one can hardly blame them for briefing the case theydid, given that the Ninth Circuit had held under Cooperthat as long as the conduct was sufficiently egregious tohave the evidence be inadmissible, therefore you have afull substantive due process violation. And I thinkit's --QUESTION: And you disagree with Mr. Robbins whosaid, but because of the qualified immunity, you wouldn'tsend this back in any case.MR. CLEMENT: Well, I -- I don't really disagreewith him. I think this Court could reach the qualifiedimmunity issue if it wanted to, but I think perhaps thepath of least resistance would be to just note that thereis a substantive due process limit, and that's somethingthat's best to be resolved on -- on remand. I think the important -- oh, sorry.QUESTION: That's all right. You can make thatsentence, if you want to.MR. CLEMENT: No. QUESTION: Okay. MR. CLEMENT: Thank you very much. QUESTION: Mr. Paz.ORAL ARGUMENT OF RICHARD S. PAZON BEHALF OF THE RESPONDENTMR. PAZ: Justice Stevens, and if it pleases the th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC Court:I -- I would start with simply the simpleobservation that the district court made a finding of factin this case at page -- it's a and of the petitionfor writ of certiorari in the -- in the appendix. And itgoes directly to the issue of what we've been discussingand that is the -- the intent. And just if I can back up a little bitprocedurally, in argument today, for the first time Iheard counsel say that they acknowledge there's no quarrelthat there was coercion in this case. In the districtcourt, the entire argument was there was no coercion. At the court of appeals, the entire argument was there wasno coercion. At the court of appeals and the district court, the -- there was never a discussion or -- or even was thecase of Urquidez -- Verdugo Urquidez cited for the factof -- that this was -- the Fifth and the FourteenthAmendments were only a trial right. Those issues arebeing heard here for the first time. They were briefedfor the first time in the opening brief.Cert was granted in this case on whether therewas a violation of the Fifth Amendment, not -- theFourteenth Amendment wasn't even discussed on cert. So we've gone through this journey of ever- th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC changing theories of -- of liability in this case, but Ithink we have to go back to the beginning.The district court found at page , finallydefendants argued that Chavez was not attempting toabridge the right against self-incrimination to -- toexact -- extract self-inculpatory data or leads. And thecourt goes on to then describe what was argued by thedefense, that Mr. Chavez was there simply to find out whathappened. The court directly rejected that.QUESTION: Mr. Paz, I'm sorry. I don't -- yourpage in the cert petition?MR. PAZ: It's a in the appendix of the -- ofthe petition for cert, yes, Justice Stevens.QUESTION: And where? I didn't -- I don't find it on that page.MR. PAZ: It starts at the -- at approximatelythe -- the bottom of the page.QUESTION: "Finally defendants argue --"? MR. PAZ: Yes. QUESTION: Okay. I'm with you.MR. PAZ: Yes. So the district court carefully looked at theevidence that had been presented, and the district courtdecided the case really because the testimony of Chavez at th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC the time the tape recordings that he made on the day ofthe incident and his deposition testimony -- he saidsimply, I'm investigating the crime. I was there toinvestigate what -- the crime had been committed, thecrime of attempted murder on two police officers on thetheory that somehow or other this farm worker had takenaway the officer's gun and was going to use it on theofficers when they shot him. That was the core of thecase. That was all of the evidence in the case. The subsequent declarations that were submittedwere only submitted after -- after Mr. Martinez submitteda motion for summary judgment that as a matter of law,using all of the evidence provided by the defense andgiving them the benefit of the doubt on all the evidence,that there was a violation of the Fifth and the Fourteenth Amendment. QUESTION: Mr. Paz, let me -- let me tell youwhy I have difficulty with the proposition which you'reurging, which is that any coercion that would suffice torequire the confession to be excluded from -- from trialis also a coercion that violates the Fifth Amendment,not -- leaving substantive due process aside. Suppose you have a situation in which a --a felon has taken a hostage and buried the hostagesomewhere, and suppose that it is possible for the police th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC official to use a degree of coercion which would not shockthe conscience. It isn't beating the person with a rubberhose, but let's say failing to give a Miranda warning, orusing a -- a sort of trickery that -- that would amount tocoercion, threatening perhaps, you know, if you don'tconfess, your brother will be prosecuted or something likethat. It would be sufficient to exclude the testimonyfrom the confession from the trial, but the policemandoesn't care about that. He wants to save the life ofthe -- of the hostage who's been -- who's been buried. Now, you would say that that -- that policemanby extracting that confession has violated the FifthAmendment. MR. PAZ: There may be a violation, and -- and Iwould agree that most likely if -- if it was in violation of Miranda, there would be -- there would be no -- itwould not be admitted into a criminal case. Maybe -- itmay be under the Quarles exception. QUESTION: What -- you'd say that the personwould -- would have a -- a action against thepoliceman? MR. PAZ: No. No, I think clearly that's thekind of a case in which qualified immunity was designed toprevent. Qualified immunity gives as -- as it did in --in -- th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC QUESTION: Only because of qualified immunity?QUESTION: Well -- well, let -- let's assumethat we decide the case, and then this happens a secondtime.MR. PAZ: Then -- then clearly --QUESTION: You have to answer Justice Scalia'squestion. You can't get away on qualified immunity.MR. PAZ: Oh, no, no. I would say --(Laughter.) MR. PAZ: I -- I would say Quarles gives us thedirection. When there is an immediate danger, whenthere's a danger to the public, then clearly there wouldbe no constitutional violation. The Court has alreadymade that decision. I -- I don't think that that's reallyan issue that we have to struggle with. QUESTION: You can violate the Fifth Amendmentwhen there's a danger to the public?MR. PAZ: That's what Quarles, I believe, says. Quarles says that -- that the Miranda violation was not --was not sufficient. And I -- as I -- as I recall inQuarles, the evidence was admitted against him. He -- hesaid, the gun is over there, and that evidence came in toprove the violation of -- of possession of a weapon. So Ithink that the Court implicitly said that we're -- in thisemergency situation, that there is no -- no Fifth th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC Amendment --QUESTION: You -- you think this applies notonly to the -- the unique aspect of the Fifth Amendmentthat -- that Miranda constitutes, but to all FifthAmendment violations.MR. PAZ: No. What I -- I think once it becomescoercive, once it becomes physical, once it becomes --then I think that you would interfere with the core valuesof -- of the Fifth Amendment. QUESTION: Justice Scalia's hypothetical askedabout coercion. There was no coercion in Quarles. Therewas just an absence of Miranda warning. Forget Miranda. Let's just talk about coercion. Is there a Fifth Amendment violation in the case that heput where there was -- there's an element -- there's a --there's a degree of coercion? There's no Miranda warning.That's out of the case. There's no sovereign -- qualifiedimmunity. That's out of the case.QUESTION: Coercion to keep it out of trial.MR. PAZ: I -- I would say yes that there is aFifth Amendment violation. The question then would be,what is the remedy?Under those --QUESTION: -- section .MR. PAZ: No. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC QUESTION: I mean, if it's a Fifth Amendmentviolation, you can sue the policeman. MR. PAZ: Under those circumstances --QUESTION: Well, this person who goes to prisonfor -- for putting this person in a -- in a grave begins asuit when he's in prison suing the -- suing the policeman.MR. PAZ: And I don't believe that's -- thatwould be the conclusion because the remedy would not beappropriate because there had been, as we saw in -- inSaucier versus Katz, there's a situation in which thepolice have to act, and so the police act if it'sreasonable, even if it's a reasonable mistake, even ifthey have the wrong guy and they try to coerce the wrongperson, it may be reasonable under an emergencycircumstance. QUESTION: I see. So let's assume somebodyis -- you think he's going to blow up the World TradeCenter. I suppose if -- if we have this necessity -- thisnecessity exception, you -- you could beat him with arubber hose.MR. PAZ: I would hope not, Your Honor. QUESTION: Oh, it's necessary. MR. PAZ: No. I think --QUESTION: Since when is -- is necessity a --you know, a justification for ignoring the Fifth th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC Amendment? MR. PAZ: Your Honor, only in the limitedsituation. I think the first hypothetical you gave me --gave us was you simply were going to ask him questionsrepeatedly. Now, I -- I don't think the rubber hoseexample was before me.QUESTION: Do you know -- okay. Do you know anyof our -- any of our cases that -- other than Mirandawhich, you know, is -- is in a field by itself, do youknow any of our cases that say that there is a necessityexception to the coercion prohibition of the FifthAmendment? MR. PAZ: Not at all, Your Honor. QUESTION: So maybe the answer would be that --that it's not -- the Fifth Amendment -- the -- the Miranda rules are methods of enforcing the Fifth Amendment so thatif all is violated in -- in Justice Scalia's hypotheticalis a Miranda rule and the person is not proceeded againstin court and the person has not been physically injured inany way and has not suffered any real harm except notbeing read a right that didn't matter anyway, he wouldhave no damages.MR. PAZ: That would be correct.QUESTION: So he could bring his lawsuit, buthe'd gain nothing. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC MR. PAZ: I would agree with that analysis. QUESTION: Except that my hypothetical was notMiranda. My hypothetical was that he was coerced in somefashion other than the failure to give a Miranda warning,and short of beating with a rubber hose.QUESTION: Yes.MR. PAZ: The distinct -- the distinctdifference in this case is -- and I understand that theexigence is -- the exigent -- the -- the terroristsituation is a difficult one. It's not our case. Mr. Martinez was riding a bicycle home. QUESTION: It's not your case. That's right. MR. PAZ: There was no call. There was nocrime. There was nothing that had happened except he wasriding his bicycle home. So we really can't -- I don't think that this is an appropriate vehicle. There may besuch a case that will at some time --QUESTION: Well, maybe this is a FourteenthAmendment case, not a Fifth Amendment case at all.MR. PAZ: I did -- I did consider that. And --and I think clearly it is a Fourteenth Amendment violationunder all the cases --QUESTION: Was it tried on that basis --MR. PAZ: Yes.QUESTION: -- presented on that basis? th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC MR. PAZ: Yes, Justice O'Connor, it was. Itwas -- it was -- that was the allegations from -- from thebeginning. But -- but --QUESTION: I don't see why the Fourteenth. Imean, the Fourteenth -- the Fifth applies to the Statesbecause it's incorporated in the Fourteenth.MR. PAZ: Correct. QUESTION: And -- and therefore, if in fact youviolate the Fifth in -- in a way that's significant, notjust -- I mean, causes significant harm, not just youdidn't read a Miranda right, but you hurt somebody, thenwhy wouldn't the Fourteenth carry that through to the --QUESTION: By way of the Fourth Amendment. MR. PAZ: Yes. I believe it does. I believethe history -- and the history -- the early cases, the --the Bram case in began with the concept of the -- ofthe Fifth Amendment protecting all of the rights. And ofcourse, Bram was a case in which -- it was against theUnited States. But as -- as -- there's an evolution thatI've -- I've seen through our cases that -- that show thatthe Fourteenth Amendment, once it was incorporated, itactually incorporated the Fifth Amendment privileges. Itactually -- the Fifth Amendment was really the -- the corevalues of what the Constitution meant to embody. It goes th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC back to -- Bram cites the early -- early cases in Englandwhere, although the right against self-incrimination wasan evidentiary rule, in Bram they -- they laud the factthat it became a constitutional rule, that it becameimmutable so that no act of Congress -- as we decided inDickerson not too long ago, no act of Congress couldchange that. So --QUESTION: But isn't it clear by now in ourcases that if a policeman uses excessive force that risesto the level of a Fourth Amendment violation, that we willaddress it under that amendment, that the Fifth Amendment,the language of it refers to use in trial of thetestimony? And -- and you don't have that limitation --MR. PAZ: I would --QUESTION: -- under a substantive due process claim. MR. PAZ: I would disagree with you on onepoint, and that is the -- the language of the amendmenttalks about a criminal case, and in our brief, we did talkabout the meaning, the distinction between a criminaltrial and a criminal case. And all of the -- all of thelanguage -- the most recent is in Hubbell. There's thediscussion about the fact that the Fifth Amendmentcovers -- the values of the Fifth Amendment coverseverything from civil to administrative to bankruptcy th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC cases. The Arnstein case in talked about the FifthAmendment protecting a bankrupt person in a bankruptcyproceeding, not even involving a criminal proceeding atall. So the extension of the Fifth Amendment goes toreally the core values. We just don't force people totalk, and the State can't do it. And --QUESTION: Excuse me. I -- you -- you mean --you say it extends to a bankruptcy proceeding. You meanyou can refuse to provide testimony that can be usedagainst you in a bankruptcy proceeding?MR. PAZ: That was the holding in Arnstein in --in , and a bankrupt person who was under thebankruptcy proceeding simply said, I have a right toremain silent. I don't want to answer these questions. The court upheld that right in the bankruptcy proceeding. So early law certainly didn't -- didn't say it had --QUESTION: Simply because he didn't want toanswer the questions, or because --MR. PAZ: They may --QUESTION: -- the -- the questions wouldincriminate him --MR. PAZ: That's correct.QUESTION: -- in a criminal proceeding. MR. PAZ: That's correct.QUESTION: Well -- th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC MR. PAZ: But -- but there was no criminalproceeding --QUESTION: Well -- yes. There wasn't any yetpending. I mean, I think we all understand that you --that you acquire some pre-trial Fifth Amendment rightsto -- to remain silent, but whether that means that therehas been a Fifth Amendment violation before the entranceis -- evidence is introduced in trial is -- is a separatequestion. MR. PAZ: I --QUESTION: Nobody questions that -- that thereare some aspects of our Fifth Amendment law which -- whichallow you to plead the Fifth Amendment before the evidencehas been introduced in trial.MR. PAZ: And -- and once the -- the right has been given to the -- to the American people to plead theFifth Amendment in any pre-trial proceeding, includingan -- an interrogation at -- after a -- after a shootingsuch as this, and after the person is the sole suspect ofa horrible crime, then obviously that is part of thecriminal case. That is part of the entire criminalprocess. If we would say we only have a Fifth Amendmentright to remain silent if we introduce it into a court --into a court proceeding, then Mr. -- persons like th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC Mr. Martinez who were never charged with a crime wouldhave no remedy.QUESTION: But it doesn't have to be part of thecriminal case. I mean, as -- as your bankruptcy exampleindicates. MR. PAZ: I agree. I agree, Justice Scalia.I think it's important that we try to focus onwhat really are the bright lines here. We have threebright lines that were violated by -- by Sergeant Chavezin this case. The first is clearly coercion that goesback to -- to the early cases. The second bright line is that there was --there was an invocation in this case. Mr. Martinez twicesaid, I don't want to talk. Leave me alone until theygive me medical treatment.There was invocations implicitly. When he firstopened his mouth, he says, leave me alone. Leave mealone. I'm dying. Those are the first words out of hismouth. That's an invocation. No reasonable policeofficer, no -- no basically trained police officer couldbelieve that questioning a fellow in his condition waspermissible.QUESTION: This -- this question is somewhatlike Justice Scalia's question. Suppose the same facts sofar as the hospital was concerned, but that the -- that th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC the incident involved a kidnapping and the injured person,your client, was a witness to the kidnapping. We wantedto know what the kidnapper looked like so we could get thechild back. MR. PAZ: Then it's clearly -- he's not asuspect. Clearly, it -- questioning is -- is obviouslyneeded. It's necessary. Of course. But -- but --QUESTION: Well, if -- if the questioning -- andsuppose he says, go away, I'm sick, I'm sick. And theysaid, no, no, we want your answer. Why is there coercionin -- no coercion in that case --MR. PAZ: Because he's --QUESTION: -- but coercion in your case? MR. PAZ: Because he's not a suspect. Becausehe's -- he isn't the sole --QUESTION: But that's -- that's a Mirandaquestion. MR. PAZ: I think not. QUESTION: And -- and it's a -- well, it's alsoa basic Fifth Amendment question. MR. PAZ: It is. QUESTION: But why isn't -- why isn't theelement of coercion the same in each case?MR. PAZ: Because the -- the constitutionalobligation. When the person is a suspect, the th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC constitutional obligation rises above. That's thedifference. QUESTION: Well, that -- for purposes of adamage action, not for purposes of Miranda, or what'sadmissible. But for purposes of a Miranda action, shoulda suspect be in a better position than a totally innocentwitness insofar as the police beating him up is concerned?MR. PAZ: No, I would think not. QUESTION: No. All right. Well, if they're --if they're the same, then I -- I guess it would be --you'd get to the same result. If they had beaten him upor been coercive, it should be the same problem whetherhe's the witness or the suspect. And if they've gone pastwhatever point is reasonable, I guess there should bedamages. And if they're doing it for a good reason because they want to stop an attack or something, well,that's just the way it is. And -- and that's -- I'mtrying to figure out if that's what the law is and whatthe right words are to get to that place and how you dealwith this mass of -- of constitutional rules, if -- ifthat's the proper result. MR. PAZ: I think the proper result is -- isgiven -- given Justice Kennedy's hypothetical, the properresult is if this is a -- a witness who has informationabout some exigent circumstance, then there -- the Fifth th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC Amendment doesn't attach at all. And obviously theofficer is not going to use leading questions, coercivequestions to get information. The basic concept ofgetting information under those circumstances is you wantit to be trustworthy. You don't want the officer puttingwords into the person's mouth and brow-beating them tocome up with something that's a bad lead. So obviously wewant to have the kind of questioning that would be, infact, seeking the truth as opposed to putting words intosomeone's mouth as what occurred in this case. The -- I'd like to address a point that's beenraised, and -- and it may not be totally necessary. I'djust like to make the distinction that the -- the basis,the entire heart of the discussion that coercion issomehow permissible unless the cases are introduced into a criminal case or into a criminal trial are -- are the --the immunity cases. In the immunity cases, they -- they -- I believethat the defense has -- or that the petitioners havetotally confused the grant of immunity and coercion in apublic trial after a grant of immunity where a person istold, you must answer the questions. And -- and thedistinctions is one is an inquisitional situation where ifthe officer has a person alone and they're forcing them toanswer questions, there is no public trial, there is no th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC judge there to make sure that they're -- they're notbeing -- there is no overreaching, there is no brow-beating. The person who was even under a grant ofimmunity can say, I'm not going to talk, and face theconsequences of going to jail and sit in jail with dignityand say, I'm not going to talk. I believe that it's moreimportant to assert my right not to speak than to be --than -- than sitting in jail. Our law still doesn't allowthe court or the jailers to use coercion to extract theirstatement. A person in this country still could have thedignity to say I don't want to speak and I'll take thepunishment, and if it's just punishment, that it's beendone by a court, then that is not coercion, the kind ofinquisitional coercion that this -- that this Court andthe United States has always said we don't tolerate. Are there any other questions? QUESTION: Going back to your earlierdistinction between the suspect and a witness, if someoneis suspected of kidnapping a child, and that child is notgoing to live without some medication -- I believe thisexample was brought up in one of the briefs -- and thesuspect, whatever answer, will certainly be incriminating,the police may not exercise any coercion to get thesuspected kidnapper to tell where the child is so thechild could get life-saving medication? th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC MR. PAZ: I believe that there can be somequestioning, and I think that the questioning has to be --even if it's forceful questioning, there must be limits. And it's -- certainly it's a balance because it has totake into account what is the circumstance of this person.The danger in saying I agree with thathypothetical, Your Honor, is that what if the person isthe wrong person. What if the suspect really isn't theperson who kidnapped the person? What if they're justwrong and they got the wrong person? That's the danger,and that's why we have to --QUESTION: And on the other side is -- is thelife of a child. MR. PAZ: That's correct. And it's -- it'salways a difficult choice, but we have -- we have to --QUESTION: -- it's difficult at all if they knowthat this is the fellow that did the -- they have allsorts of evidence. They know this is the guy that -- thatburied the child, or deprived the child of medication orwhatever. It's not a hard question at all.MR. PAZ: Then I think -- I think that thereis -- we have to look at Quarles for guidance and, again,it has to be the degree of the -- the degree of coercionthat is permissible. It's difficult to say that anycoercion is permissible. But again, given -- with the th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC limited hypothetical and limited facts, it's -- it'sdifficult to make a judgment at this point.QUESTION: Mr. Paz, what do you -- what do youdo with the Murphy case that's relied upon so extensivelyby -- by Mr. Robbins? As I understand that case, it was aState legislative commission which accorded immunity tothe witness under State law, but of course could notaccord immunity under Federal law. And we held that thewitness, nonetheless, had to testify, and we said, ofcourse, if the feds try to use the evidence, it will notbe admissible because it was -- it was obtained undercoercion. But we, nonetheless, allowed the State tocompel the testimony. Now, were we allowing a FifthAmendment violation?MR. PAZ: No, Your Honor. That -- that was, as I understood, that the -- the use immunity that wasgranted in -- in Waterfront was extensive with theprivilege. It was allowed -- that is, as I understand thereading of the case, was that the privilege that -- thatthe -- the immunity that was granted was sufficient tocover both any State prosecution as well as Federalprosecution.QUESTION: No, no, no. That wasn't the case. That was the whole problem. The State could not grantimmunity from Federal prosecution. It -- it granted th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC immunity only from State prosecution. And we said,nonetheless, the State could -- could lock the person upuntil he testified. And the only consequence would bethat if he did testify, it would not be introducible inFederal trial because it -- it had been coerced.Now, I -- you know, it's a bizarre case, but itdoes seem to stand for the principle that Mr. Robbinsasserts, which is that there's no Fifth Amendmentviolation until the evidence is introduced.MR. PAZ: We all make mistakes, Your Honor. (Laughter.) QUESTION: You think -- you think that was oneof our mistakes. (Laughter.) QUESTION: Did you -- did you come up anywhere in your -- in your research on this with anything thatsuggests that -- that once the person is a suspect, andonce he's in custody of the police, that the criminal casehas begun?MR. PAZ: Yes.QUESTION: Or is it clear that that isn't? Isit clear that the criminal case that the Constitutionrefers to is -- is not really begun until it's what we'dcall technically is a criminal case, the filing, you know,indictment, or -- et cetera? th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC MR. PAZ: I -- I think there was good languagein -- in Colorado versus Connelly. Justice O'Connor wrotea concurring opinion I think that covers the point quitewell that said that -- and there was also the --QUESTION: It says that -- what? That thecriminal case had begun at the time he was in custody?MR. PAZ: As I recall, the -- the discussion wasthat there had been an argument that the -- that Mosley'sstatement -- that that by using Mosley's statement,because there had been no police coercion, that it waspermissible because the purpose of the -- of the rights,the Fifth Amendment, was to prevent police misconduct andcoercion. And -- and in that context there was a -- therewas a discussion about -- that the -- that the -- thatthere was -- that because the rights protect outside of the criminal case and outside of the trial, that there wasno -- there would be no deterrence. There would be noreason to enforce it at that point. Also there was Michigan versus Tucker. BothMichigan and -- and Colorado versus Colony -- Connellyboth discuss about a two-part inquiry. Should -- shouldwe -- and the Court indicates in both of those cases thatthere's an analysis of whether the police officer conductviolated the Fifth Amendment, and then secondly, what isthe remedy. So really, those two cases talk about the th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC difference between the right pre-trial in the custodialinterrogation setting, as well as -- as does Miranda, andthe difference between the remedies that the courtconsidered.Any further questions? Thank you. QUESTION: Thank you, Mr. Paz.Mr. Robbins, you have, I think it's, minutes.REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF LAWRENCE S. ROBBINSON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONERMR. ROBBINS: Thank you, Mr. -- Justice Stevens.Let me just quickly make a couple of points. It seems to me that petitioner can win this casethe hard way or the easy way. The easy way is recognizingthat this body of law is, as one of the members said this morning, a complex of constitutional issues with crosscurrents that cut in a variety of directions, that inlight of Verdugo Urquidez, in light of Sacramento againstLewis, it cannot be said that any of these constitutionalprinciples was sufficiently clearly established to warrantthe rejection of qualified immunity. But I want to win itthe hard way. First, because under Sacramento against Lewis,the standard for substantive due process is intent toharm. That wasn't pled. That wasn't tried. There's no th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC such argument before you today. No one thinks that ifSacramento against Lewis applies, there can be asubstantive due process claim at all. That's why itwasn't in the complaint. And no one here before you issuggesting intent to harm. Now, on the Fifth Amendment, Justice Kennedy,I'd like to take one more crack at the concern that you'vearticulated because I think it is -- it is in factpossible to square those concerns with the holding inMurphy against Waterfront Commission which, as far as Ican tell, is perfectly good law and consistent with whatthis Court said in footnote of Balsys about the fail-safe of use immunity provided directly by the FifthAmendment. So long as the government has not compromisedthe availability of use immunity under the Fifth Amendment, there hasn't been a Fifth Amendment violation.In each of the penalty cases that are suggestedby your hypothetical, that's what the government has done. They have said to the witness, you may not have immunity. You may not assert your Fifth Amendment. If you assertyour Fifth Amendment right, we're going to put you inlock-up right now. The Court has consistently said, youknow, if you forfeit the use immunity and actually put aguy in jail because he insists on it, that's as good asuse. That's a protection that stems from the Fifth th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC Amendment itself. And that's -- that explains all of the so-calledpenalty cases. The police -- the Garrity case in NewJersey, the two Lefkowitz cases out of New York. Thatexplains -- what is, in fact, going on there is someone isbeing punished or penalized for the assertion of aprivilege, including the right against use. But as long as the fail-safe in the words --Justice Souter, that you used in -- in footnote ofBalsys, as long as the fail-safe of use immunity has notbeen compromised, as it has not been in this case, thereis not yet a full Fifth Amendment violation, which canonly happen when there's a use in a criminal case. And that is exactly the point that this Court inVerdugo Urquidez said in the passage that the Ninth Circuit decided to call dictum and ignore. That was a bigmistake. And on that ground alone, it's the FifthAmendment portion of its decision --QUESTION: But, Mr. Robbins, why couldn't -- whycouldn't --MR. ROBBINS: -- that should be reversed at thefirst threshold.QUESTION: Why couldn't you view the continuedquestioning under the circumstances of this case astantamount to punishment when you have locked somebody up th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC who won't answer questions? MR. ROBBINS: Well, I -- I think because --well, for one thing, the availability of use immunity isstill there. What you -- what I think it would -- what Ithink -- what I think it would amount to is continuedcoercion of a statement which arguably at some threshold,once you cross it, does indeed become too coercive torender the statement admissible. But that's when theFifth Amendment fail-safe steps in and says, you may notuse it. That would violate the Fifth Amendment. Butbecause the fail-safe wasn't compromised in this case, asit was in the line of cases suggested by Justice Kennedy'shypothetical, there cannot be a Fifth Amendment, and wedon't even have to reach the question of qualifiedimmunity. JUSTICE STEVENS: Thank you very much,Mr. Robbins.The case is submitted.(Whereupon, at : p.m., the case in theabove-entitled matter was submitted.) th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC 