 IN THE SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -XPACIFICARE HEALTH SYSTEMS, INC., ET AL., Petitioners :::v. : No. -JEFFREY BOOK, ET AL., :- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -XWashington, D.C.Monday, February , The above-entitled matter came on for oralargument before the Supreme Court of the United States at: a.m.APPEARANCES:WILLIAM E. GRAUER, ESQ., San Diego, California; on behalf of the Petitioners.JOE R. WHATLEY, JR., ESQ., Birmingham, Alabama; on behalfof the Respondents. th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC PAGE C O N T E N T SORAL ARGUMENT OF WILLIAM E. GRAUER, ESQ.On behalf of the Petitioners ORAL ARGUMENT OFJOE R. WHATLEY, JR., ESQ.On behalf of the Respondents REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OFWILLIAM E. GRAUER, ESQ.On behalf of the Petitioners th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC P R O C E E D I N G S(: a.m.)CHIEF JUSTICE REHNQUIST: We'll hear argumentnow in Number -, Pacific Health Care Systems v.Jeffrey Book.Mr. Grauer.ORAL ARGUMENT OF WILLIAM E. GRAUERON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONERSMR. GRAUER: Mr. Chief Justice, and may itplease the Court:For three reasons, the important Federal policyfavoring arbitration would be seriously undermined ifcourts become entangled in speculative litigation overarbitration remedies. First, the enforceability of alimitation on remedies in arbitration ought to be decided in the first instance by the arbitrator, since that's nota gateway issue of arbitrability.Second, it's unlikely in this case that thearbitrator would have found that the limitations onremedies agreed by the parties would have precluded theaward of RICO treble damages, and third, there is simplyno reason why parties found by the district court to besophisticated cannot mutually agree to limit remedies.Turning, then, to --QUESTION: Mr. Grauer, on the second point that th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC you made, you said it's unlikely that the arbitratorswould find that treble damages are inconsistent withthe -- with the contracts. Would you, supposing this casewere to be before the arbitrator, would you concede thatthe contracts in question permit treble damages awards ona RICO claim? Would you make that contention?MR. GRAUER: Yes.QUESTION: Thank you.MR. GRAUER: Yes.QUESTION: On your first point, suppose you havea contract that is very clear that there can be no tripledamages under RICO, that's right in the contract, is ityour position that that goes to the arbitrator and it'sfor the arbitrator to say that this violates public policyand I'm going to -- well, I mean, what would happen in that case?MR. GRAUER: Yes, we believe that it's for thearbitrator to decide. We believe that there's essentiallya -year tradition of allowing arbitrators to makedecisions of that nature and of allowing issues of theremedies that can arise in arbitration to be decided bythe arbitrator.QUESTION: The arbitrator, I take it, on theface of the contract simply could not award the damages,or are you saying that he might? th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC MR. GRAUER: Yes. The arbitrator --QUESTION: He'd say, this is against publicpolicy and I'm giving you triple damages? I don't carewhat the contract says, I go beyond the scope of thearbitration contract?MR. GRAUER: Well, the arbitrator is bound firstand foremost, under both the law and under the arbitrationclauses in this case, to comply with the controlling law. This Court has held several times, in Mitsubishi, inVimar, in Gilmer, and in other cases that we should notsuppose that the arbitrator will not follow the law. Weshould assume that the arbitrator will follow the law and,therefore, if the law requires the award of trebledamages, even if the parties have agreed otherwise, thearbitrator is bound to follow that law.QUESTION: What's our best case, or is thereone, for the proposition that if the contract says thearbitrator may not do X, and X violates public policy,that the arbitrator goes ahead and does it anyway? What'sour case that says that?MR. GRAUER: I believe that that would be foundin Mitsubishi, in the Vimar y Seguros case at page , inthe McMahon case at page --QUESTION: Well, but I'm not sure in any ofthose cases it was clear that the contract in very th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC explicit terms said, you cannot do this. I -- I -- Irecognize that in those cases it does say if there'simportant public policy it can't be overturned by thearbitration.MR. GRAUER: I think the -- one example -- thereare several examples, but one that comes to mind is thatin the Vimar case the COGSA prevented the arbitratorfrom -- the COGSA prevented any reduction in liability ina bill of lading, and -- and there was a concern that thelaw in Japan which had been selected to conduct thearbitration had a different set of rules that could haveallowed the stevedores to be -- to have liability laid offon the stevedores, and yet the Court said, we will notindulge in the presumption that the arbitrator will notfollow the appropriate law and, therefore, even though Japanese law was different, the arbitrator, we assumed,would follow the controlling law.Now, in this particular case, it's -- it's notonly true that the -- that the Court has held severaltimes that we should not assume that an arbitrator willfail to follow the controlling law, but all of thearbitration agreements, and I would cite the Court to thejoint appendix, pages , , , and , in each ofthe arbitration agreements in this case, the arbitrator isadmonished to follow the controlling law. th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC QUESTION: Well, but in one of the arbitrationclauses, I think, it says the arbitrator shall not vary orignore the terms of this agreement, shall have noauthority to award extracontractual damages at any time,including punitive or exemplary damages.Now, what's the arbitrator to do with aprovision like that? Is that not the kind of thing that courts have looked at and determined whether that's avalid public policy or not?MR. GRAUER: I wouldn't agree with the Courtlooking at that, and here's why. I agree that what youread, Justice O'Connor, is, in fact, what's in thatagreement, but if you read on in that sentence it says,and the arbitrator shall follow the controlling law. Atbest, there is a conflict or a tension between those terms, and this is what arbitrators do all the time.There are all these agreements that are -- thatevery day are presented to arbitrators that have a numberof provisions that could step on each other, and -- andthe arbitrator has to interpret the contract. That's whatwe bargained for in entering an arbitration agreement,that if there was some tension, or some confusion ordispute, that the arbitr --QUESTION: Have we ever allowed a prospectivewaiver of a statutory right -- th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC MR. GRAUER: Prospective --QUESTION: -- in these arbitration contexts?MR. GRAUER: The prospective waivers -- yes, Ibelieve that that, for example, in our brief we cited anumber of cases such as Mezzanatto that create apresumption that a statutory right is waivable unlessCongress has said otherwise.Now, in the arbitration context, again, to getback to the Vimar y Seguros case, the party was agreeingto arbitration even though there was a concern before thearbitration that the arbitrator might not follow thecorrect law.The guiding principle of -- that -- that hasguided this Court's jurisprudence for -- for years, andit's been reiterated in Mitsubishi, and McMahon, and --and Vimar, and Gilmer, is that we should assume that thearbitrator will apply -- will apply the correct law, butif --QUESTION: Mr. Grauer, on the question ofwaiver, you have represented, and I want to make thisclear, that waiver would be academic in this situation,since you say you will concede that all of these contractsallow the arbitrator to award treble damages. Is -- am Icorrect in understanding that waiver would be academicbecause you're not going to make the argument of waiver, th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC you're going to make -- you're going to concede thattreble damages are available if a RICO violation is found?MR. GRAUER: Absolutely. I agree with that,Justice Ginsburg, and as a matter of fact for two reasons,not only because we've made that concession, but alsobecause we agreed to arbitrate. That means we agreed tosubmit any issues to the arbitrator and therefore, even ifwe had not made that concession, we would believe that thearbitrator ought to be asked in the first instance todecide the validity of a waiver.QUESTION: But suppose the arbitrator gets itwrong. Suppose the arbitrator thinks that the provision,no punitive damages, excludes treble damages, and thatthat prevails. Could that be corrected by post awardreview?MR. GRAUER: To the extent -- yes, I think itcould, and here's why. The one thing that this Court hassaid, no fewer than four times, and -- and has emphasizedI think those four times, is that when a statutory claimis arbitrated, there -- the -- we assume that postarbitration review is sufficient to ensure the vindicationof statutory interests, and the Court mentioned that notonly in McMahon at page , in Gilmer at footnote , andalso in Vimar and in Mitsubishi. In all four of thosecases, this Court has specific -- excuse me -- this Court th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC has specifically said that -- that, while limited, postarbitration review is sufficient to ensure that statutoryinterests are vindicated.QUESTION: In other words, it's quite simple. Idon't see what's so complicated about this. I thoughtwhat you were saying, and I thought that's what the lawwas, but tell me if I'm not right, please, is,interpreting the contract is a matter for the arbitrator,but once we know what the contract means, then whetherthat contract, as interpreted, provides sufficient remedyto be valid as an arbitration contract is for the judge.MR. GRAUER: I would -- I would agree with thefirst part of that, Justice Breyer, and that is --QUESTION: Well, why not the second? I mean,after all, if I have a contract which says, Jones and Smith agree to arbitrate all damage claims, but no damagesshall ever be awarded, no matter what, okay, that's prettyclear that the enforcement of that would invalidate thatarbitration agreement because it can't be enforced. Theperson who should say that is the judge, because the judgesays, look, you people don't have an arbitration contract.Now, why you'd leave that to the arbitrator -- Iguess you could, but I think that is a gateway matter thatI think you'd have to be quadruple clear about thatsomebody wanted that point decided by an arbitrator. th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC Now, that's how I'm understanding it, so I'dlike you to correct me if I'm wrong.MR. GRAUER: I'm not sure I followed the firstpart of the hypothetical.QUESTION: The first part's very simple. Whatthe contract means is for the arbitrator. The partieshave agreed to that. But once we know what it means,whether it is an enforceable arbitration contract orviolates some anti -- some statute that says -- or somepublic policy and the -- which means, you two cannotarbitrate this kind of thing with this kind of agreement,that question of arbitrability is for the judge, becauseit is a gateway matter.If, in fact, this contract for arbitration isunlawful, as against pubic policy or whatever, then there is no arbitration contract, and that matter is a matterfor the judge, unless the parties clearly indicate thatthey want it to be decided by an arbitrator. And I readthrough those cases a little while ago, and that seemed tome what they said, and so I wrote it into an opinion whichI think every member of this Court but one agreed to.MR. GRAUER: Justice Breyer, I agree with thefirst part, and that is this, that the gateway issue ofarbitrability involves the determination of, did theparties make a valid agreement to arbitrate and, if they th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC did, is the dispute within the scope of that agreement,but that should end, in our view, the inquiry, because ifyou don't end the inquiry at that point, you're -- you'reopening the door to questions about remedies and legalissues and what are the elements of the cause of actionand what have the parties agreed to, and let me give youan example.The parties -- I sell you , widgets for adollar each, as is, and no -- and liquidated damages of $and no other liability, and we agree to that, okay. Now,the person then sues for RICO because they want to getaround that. Well, the only issue ought to be, did theparties make a valid agreement to arbitrate and, if so, isthe dispute in the scope of that agreement, and the factthat there may be a downstream dispute about the validity of the remedies and the validity of the waiver of theremedies should not, under any circumstances, spill overinto the gateway --QUESTION: I didn't say when you would decideit. I said, the matter is a matter for the judge. If wedon't know what the contract means, then I guess we haveto go to the arbitrator to find out before we know, beforewe can present the judge. That's Vimar, or Vimar, isn'tit?MR. GRAUER: Vimar y Seguros, and I agree, th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC Justice Breyer, that post arbitration --QUESTION: I thought you probably would end upagreeing.(Laughter.)MR. GRAUER: Well, post, as long as theagreement is that it's post arbitration. The postarbitration review has been held four times by the Courtto be sufficient to clean up matters at the margin thatcould come up.QUESTION: But if the contract is completelycleared at the outset, why not pre-arbitration review?MR. GRAUER: If the con --QUESTION: Why march up the hill and then marchdown again?MR. GRAUER: Well, the courts -- I would disagree with approaching it that way, becauseunfortunately what's clear to a plaintiff's lawyer isoften not clear to a defense lawyer, and there are manyelements of a cause of action, there are many remediallimitations --QUESTION: So you're saying that nothing is everclear to the bar?(Laughter.)MR. GRAUER: My good friend, Mr. Whatley and Iagree on very little in the case, and that's the problem. th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC QUESTION: Well, do you say that this provisionin one of the arbitration clauses that the arbitratorshall have no authority to award extracontractual damagesof any kind is not clear enough for a judge to determinewhether that's --MR. GRAUER: We feel that -- we --QUESTION: -- against public policy?MR. GRAUER: Yes, I do, and here's why.QUESTION: Why?MR. GRAUER: Because we believe that webargained to have an arbitrator make that decision, andthere are many words in this case that may seem like it'sclear what they mean, but may in some contexts not be soclear.The word racketeering is used to describe a case where a doctor is seeking to be paid more for treating apatient. There are a lot of words in this case, and wefeel that we bargained to have an arbitrator interpretthem, and as I indicated to Justice Ginsburg, it wasconceded some time ago that the term, extracontractual wasnot in -- was intended to be noneconomic damages and wasnot intended to be primarily remedial RICO treble damages,but --QUESTION: Well, what you're arguing forbasically is that it should go to the arbitrator for a th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC decision of almost everything except what we have held tobe gateway issues, and that if it doesn't, it's just goingto kind of get bounced back and forth like a ping pongball.MR. GRAUER: I agree, Mr. Chief Justice. I -- I believe that the importance of the Court's recentpronouncement in Howsam about gateway arbitrability as weread that case is that you determine, did the partiesintend to subject themselves to the power of anarbitrator? Did they make an arbitration agreement, andis the dispute within the scope of that agreement, and ifthe answers to those questions are yes, the onlyadditional issue that comes up, and the one thatunfortunately became conflated in the Eleventh Circuitbelow, is where there is a statutory claim, there is an additional analysis that this Court has traditionallydone, and that is, did Congress, by enacting that statute,intend to override or preempt the Federal Arbitration Act,and that's the issue that has come up, and unfortunatelywhat's happened in the Eleventh and the Ninth Circuits isthat they have taken that concept of simply making adetermination of whether another statute is -- preemptsthe Federal Arbitration Act, and they've used it to createessentially a floating analysis of effective vindicationthat's untethered to the statutory conflict analysis. th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC QUESTION: Okay, how -- how clear has it got tobe before there is some kind of a tether? Let's assumeyou had a simpler case than this one in which thearbitration agreement provided -- this is silly, but forthe sake of a point, that no damages will be awarded bythe arbitrator for the violation of any statutory claim,as distinct from a tort claim, common law tort claim, or acontract claim. Would you say that in that case therewas, in fact, a threshold question of arbitrabilitybecause that provision went so clearly to the validity ofthe agreement that it should be treated as a, could beproperly treated as a threshold matter for a court?MR. GRAUER: It would depend, Justice Souter. Ibelieve that there could be a situation where anagreement --QUESTION: Well, how about my situation?MR. GRAUER: In -- in -- in your situation, thereason I say your situation would depend is that there aremany contracts where that would be a perfectly legitimateunderstanding. For example, I -- I'll sell you ,widgets, $ each, I haven't checked them over, they may beno darned good, but you want them for $ each, and I don'twant to be sued for this, so I want liquidated damages of$. That type of commercial arrangement --QUESTION: Yeah, but in that case you're -- th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC well, and again, maybe -- maybe this is where it getstheoretical. In -- in that case, in effect, you're --you're waiving any statutory claim at the beginning. In-- in the case I gave, maybe it's the same point, I justsaid you waive damages. I -- I suppose you wouldn'twaive -- on that theory you wouldn't be waiving equitableremedies if there were any, so -- so let's just take mycase. You waive the damages -- you don't waive the claim. You waive the damages. You don't waive the right toequitable remedy.Is -- is that -- is the -- is the -- in effectthe -- the waiver of the right to damages in thearbitration agreement sufficient to raise a serious enoughquestion about the enforceability of the arbitrationagreement to qualify that question as a gateway question? MR. GRAUER: I believe the answer is no, withone exception. In general, anything relating to remediesshould be dealt with by the arbitrator, and we shouldassume that -- that if there is something improper aboutthat remedial limitation, that the arbitrator will -- willdo what he or she is supposed to do, follow the law, getit right.QUESTION: Okay, but you're saying, I thinkyou're saying, and -- and correct me if I 'm wrong,that -- that no remedial question can ever rise to the th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC level of a -- a potential threat to the potential -- to --to vindication of statutory rights. Whatever that phrasemay mean, as we have employed it, a mere question of -- ofwaiver of remedies will never rise to that level and,hence, will never get to the threshold question status, isthat correct?MR. GRAUER: As a general premise, I believethat's correct. I think we could envision situationswhere a variety of factors, including that, are linkedtogether such that the plaintiff might make a motion torevoke the arbitration agreement itself on the, ontraditional contract grounds should there be a wholeseries of things that make a contract unconscionable oronerous, but that did not occur in this case.In fact, the court found that it was not unconscionable or onerous. It was negotiated betweensophisticated parties, and so the court declined to dosection revocation of the contract for generallyapplicable contract grounds, but there could be a casewhere a remedial limitation, combined with other factors,could rise to that level, not -- certainly not this case. The problem --QUESTION: And I take it you would say that ifat least the -- the details of the agreement that wouldraise the issue to that level are specifically pleaded in th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC -- in -- in -- in the request, in -- in -- in the actionthat takes it into court, that at least the -- the -- thebreadth of the frustration doctrine would not stand in theway of -- of a court's adjudicating it?MR. GRAUER: Well, that's correct. If Iunderstood you correctly, I -- I -- I believe inarbitration cases there's frequently a motion by aplaintiff to revoke the arbitration agreement on groundsof unconscionability --QUESTION: Yes.MR. GRAUER: -- and judges deal with those fromtime to time. This is certainly not such a case.QUESTION: But I think you're simply sayingthey've got to be specific in telling us right at theoutset what it is that makes it unconscionable. Theycan't just come up and say, oh well, there's a potentialfor frustration here.MR. GRAUER: Right, and -- and it's veryimportant to note an additional distinction, and that is,the -- the attack on unconscionability cannot be on thecontract as a whole, because if it is, under Prima Paintthat, too, should be decided by the arbitrator. The onlyunconscionability, the only type of attack that could bemade would be on the arbitration clause itself.QUESTION: Uh-huh. th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC QUESTION: May I ask --QUESTION: Under what law is unconscionabilitydecided? Is -- is it State law?MR. GRAUER: In this case, because there's aFederal claim, and the case is in Federal court, the Courthas said a number of times that there is a Federalsubstantive law of arbitrability, but the contract itselfwas entered between people governed by State law, and sothe revocability question would be a decision aboutwhether that contract either as a whole, or thearbitration clause itself, are revocable under theapplicable State law subject to the overlay, so to speak,that's created by the Federal Arbitration Act in notallowing States to have unconscionability laws thatwould --QUESTION: Vitiate --MR. GRAUER: -- vitiate an arbitration clause.QUESTION: May I ask, I just want to -- I may bemissing what's perfectly obvious, but if you have acontract in which the only remedy authorized to beprovided is an illegal remedy for some reason that couldnot be taken away from the plaintiff, does thearbitrator -- is that agreement immediately nonarbitrable,or do you arbitrate the issues and then saying thatthere's no remedy? th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC MR. GRAUER: I don't believe either of thosewould be the case. I believe that if -- if the -- youwould arbitrate the issue, and you would expect thearbitrator to follow the law.QUESTION: Even if, on the face of the contract,a judge could say, the only remedy offered to a successfulcomplainant is one that may not be submitted toarbitration?MR. GRAUER: There's only -- I -- I don't agreewith that. QUESTION: The waiver of a statutory right ofsome kind.MR. GRAUER: There would be one way that theplaintiff's lawyer could raise that issue, which is notone of the -- what occurred in this case, but I suppose you could argue that the entire arbitration agreement isillusory and unconscionable, but --QUESTION: Then if that's true, what if you havea case in which there are two remedies available, one ofwhich is clearly impermissible as a matter of Federal law,the other of which is permissible, but there's noseverability clause in the contract? What do you dothere?MR. GRAUER: I believe in that case, as in theprior one, you should send the matter to arbitration, you th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC should assume that the arbitrator will correctly apply thelaw, that if there is a provision in the contract that'sunlawful, that the arbitrator will disregard it.QUESTION: I guess you'd have to -- thearbitrator would have to decide whether implicit in theterms of the contract is a decision by the parties thatwould permit him to waive the thing. I mean, JusticeStevens' hypothetical will, I think -- I'd like theanswer, anyway. If we assume in the contract it says, andthe parties agree that this contract is exclusive inrespect to remedy, and the arbitrator does not have thepower to strike out some remedies and put in others, okay,so now they've done that, now I take it the answer to hisfirst hypothetical is, you go to the judge, and theagreement's no good. Isn't that right?MR. GRAUER: No. I don't agree, if I understoodyou correctly, and the reason --QUESTION: The -- the contract has only oneremedy. The remedy is clearly illegal. There is asentence in the contract saying the arbitrator has nopower to add a new remedy or to strike the old one. Nowwe have it absolutely clear that this is an unlawfularbitration agreement, and the judge would say thatwithout sending it to arbitration, wouldn't he? That'sthe same question I asked before -- th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC MR. GRAUER: Right.QUESTION: -- and I thought your answer was, ofMR. GRAUER: Well --QUESTION: Maybe I'm wrong. That's why I'mcourse.asking.MR. GRAUER: If -- if there is a ground undersection to revoke the arbitration clause for generallyapplicable grounds, not because it's an arbitrationclause, then a party could make a motion of that natureand the court, of course, would have to address thatmotion, and -- but -- but I didn't want to get away fromthe fact that I think is important, is that when you'redealing with remedies, and when you're dealing witharbitrators, we really need to assume that the arbitrator will follow the law.And -- and in this particular case, for example,the arbitration clause does contain a limitation onremedies, but that limitation on remedies could have beenput elsewhere in the contract, and if it were somewhereelse in the contract, or it might have been -- the partiesmight not have agreed to arbitrate. They might haveagreed that we'll litigate in Florida, but the Court willnot have the power to award punitive damages. Now, youwould not say that the limitation on punitive damages th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC prevents the parties from having to go to Florida, and youneed to treat an arbitration clause, we think, the same,or the parties might have had the remedial limitation inthis case, and no arbitration clause.Now, what would a court do? It would -- thecourt would evaluate the validity of the remediallimitation and make a decision. Well, an arbitrator isexactly the same. It's simply selecting a differentforum.I see my light's on. Unless there's anadditional question, I would reserve my time for rebuttal.QUESTION: Very well, Mr. Grauer.Mr. Whatley, we'll hear from you.ORAL ARGUMENT OF JOE R. WHATLEY, JR.ON BEHALF OF THE RESPONDENTSMR. WHATLEY: Mr. Chief Justice, and may itplease the Court:We start with the principle that arbitrabilityis to be determined by the court, as this Court has saidmany times, including in AT&T and First Option, and thatthere is no -- no presumption, or no liberal policy infavor of giving that issue of arbitrability to thearbitrator. It's exactly the opposite.You go one step further, since this caseinvolves an issue of public policy, and in both W. R. th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC Grace, and later in Misco and in Eastern Associated CoalCorporation, this Court said that questions of publicpolicy are for the court, not for the arbitrator.QUESTION: We also said that that kind ofquestion that would affect an arbitration is fairly rare,didn't we?MR. WHATLEY: You did, Your Honor, and in fact Ithink this case shows that it -- that it's rare, and Ithink the various amicus briefs that have been submittedshows that an effort to put limits on remedies, which thisCourt has attacked many times, is rare. I mean, otherdefendants didn't do that here. The Well Point didn't --QUESTION: You say -- you say this Court hasattacked what many times?MR. WHATLEY: This Court -- within the context of arbitration, Justice O'Connor's question, this Courthas never allowed the waiver of statutory remedies in thecontext of an arbitration, enforcing an arbitrationprovision. If you go back to Mitsubishi and follow everycase right through Waffle House, this Court over and overand over again has quoted the portions of Mitsubishi, andfootnote from Mitsubishi, saying that you're onlychanging the forum when you're arbitrating.QUESTION: Mr. Whatley, Mr. Grauer has concededthat there is no waiver here, that treble damages are th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC available, so why are we engaging in this academicexercise?MR. WHATLEY: Well, the concern I have withthat, Your Honor, is if -- if you read the questionpresented in his brief, that's not what it says.QUESTION: Well, he's made the concession rightnow --MR. WHATLEY: He has made the --QUESTION: -- and he has five arguments forsaying, any good lawyer would, that these words that youread punitive damages, extracontractual damages, do notprevent the arbitrator from awarding treble damages, so hehas one interpreting the thing, two, if the interpretationfails he concedes it, three, there's nothing in thecontract says he can't concede it, and so why don't we send this to the arbitrator to find out what the contractmeans before we decide that it must mean something thatwould bar its enforcement?MR. WHATLEY: Well, the problem with that -- theproblem with that is, doing it after the fact has somepretty severe policy implications.QUESTION: But didn't we, the Court holdprecisely, do it after the fact, in Vimar?MR. WHATLEY: Well --QUESTION: It's precisely the same circumstance. th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC MR. WHATLEY: In that case, Your Honor, you weredealing with the international context, where you said,starting in Mitsubishi is a -- is a special situationconcerning, where you've got to be concerned withinternational law. That's number one.Number two, especially when you use the Unitedlanguage that Justice O'Connor quoted, you couldn't getmuch more clear than United was in its provision, noextracontractual damages, including --QUESTION: This contract doesn't cover a tortaction.MR. WHATLEY: It doesn't cover a tort action.QUESTION: In other words, what they wanted tohave is an arbitration between doctors and hospitals, andthe single most likely, or a very, very likely kind of dispute they call tort disputes, aren't even covered bythe arbitration agreement, and it's impossible for anarbitrator to come to a different conclusion.MR. WHATLEY: That is -- that is -- that is ourposition, Your Honor.QUESTION: I know that's your position. It'sjust, as I said it with my tone of voice, I'm suggestingit sounds implausible.MR. WHATLEY: Well --QUESTION: So what I'd like is an argument for th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC that position.MR. WHATLEY: Well, the argument for thatposition is, you start with the language, and you don'tonly start with the language that says, noextracontractual damages and, in fact, the issue you getin arbitration, and -- and -- and you go to arbitration,and I know we assume arbitrators are going to follow thelaw, absolutely, the Court has said that many times,although many arbitrators are not lawyers, but I'vehandled many arbitrations, and --QUESTION: Well, many judges who are lawyers endup not following the law.(Laughter.)MR. WHATLEY: Your Honor, you can say that, butI don't think I can.(Laughter.)MR. WHATLEY: And -- and the arbitrators almostinvariably say, you know, this is -- this is what createdme, the contract is my Bible, where I get my directions,and if the contract says very plainly, no extracontractualdamages, even if later on it says, and follow the law, andif it says -- says that you can't vary or ignore the termsof this agreement, which this agreement says, that is astrong impediment against an arbitrator awardingappropriate relief where you've got a Federal statute that th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC creates tort-like damages.QUESTION: Every one of these contracts says thearbitrator will follow the law, the arbitrator has nopower to commit errors of law. Mr. Grauer, I think, saidthat those provisions may be intention, but when they are,the one that controls is the one that says the arbitratormust follow the law.MR. WHATLEY: Well, that's good, and now thatthe issue has been specifically raised, and after thefact, after it's raised they come in and waive it. Theconcern we have is, what about the times when it's notspecifically raised? What about the times when you goforward through arbitration and perhaps --QUESTION: That's another case. We're decidingthis case.MR. WHATLEY: Well, it's not -- it's thislanguage, though, Your Honor. It's this language.QUESTION: But you don't litigate this language. You're litigating a particular case before us.MR. WHATLEY: But -- but Your Honor, they didn'tcome in and waive that position until it got before JudgeMoreno, and Judge Moreno was going to hold it illegal,going to hold this arbitration agreement unenforceablebecause of the overreaching they engaged in by limitingthe remedies that could be awarded. th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC It was only then, having been caught, that theysay, okay --QUESTION: Mr. Whatley, they were never beforean arbitrator, were they?MR. WHATLEY: Well, they were never before anarbitrator, that's true, Your Honor. They were neverbefore an arbitrator, but that's when it was finallywaived, after the issue was specifically presented, andthe judge was not going to enforce it, and that's whenJudge Moreno said no, we're not going to allow this afterthe fact waiver.QUESTION: After the fact -- when did he thinkit should have been waived in order to -- to assist thepetitioner here?MR. WHATLEY: Well, in truth, I think he thought it should never -- if they're going to take --QUESTION: Well then, if he thought it shouldnever be, then what does after the fact mean?MR. WHATLEY: It means, after the issue waspresented to the trial court.QUESTION: Well, but that happens all the time. An issue is presented to the trial court, and you say,well, on second thought I'm not going to do that.MR. WHATLEY: Well, but the problem with thatis, Your Honor, it means that that provision is still th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC there. It's still addressed.QUESTION: Well, that's true if parties settle acase.QUESTION: Yes, absolutely.MR. WHATLEY: Well, if parties settle a case,that's a very different question, because this is aprospective provision that applies out into the future,and that's the difference. The way -- that's the wholedifference about our argument about waiver that'spresented to you.Of course people waive things in settlements allthe time, but they don't waive things prospectively, andthis Court hasn't allowed the waiver of statutory rightsprospectively. That's the big difference.QUESTION: The big question for arbitration is, was there a violation of RICO, and I think one of thequestions from the bench suggested that the scope ofremedy doesn't rise to the same level as, is there aviolation of the act, and if in this case the arbitratorshould find that if there is no violation of RICO on thepart of care organizations, then there would never be anyissue of remedy.MR. WHATLEY: Well, that --QUESTION: And, but you want to take that issue,which the parties did agree to arbitrate, and put that in th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC the courts, because you say there's something defective inthe remedy provision of the arbitration.MR. WHATLEY: That's true, but if -- if -- if acourt or an arbitrator can't grant the remedies thatCongress has authorized for a violation, including for acriminal violation, if the court can't grant that relief,then there is a serious public policy problem with puttingthe parties into that forum to make that decision.QUESTION: And just what is that public policyproblem?MR. WHATLEY: The public policy problem isthat -- is that the arbitrator then cannot remedy it.QUESTION: Well --QUESTION: Well, do you take the position thatthe arbitrator in a case like this could not even --could -- let's assume -- let's assume the arbitrator tookthe position that he couldn't award treble damages. Doyou take the position that under this contract thearbitrator could not award simple compensatory damages?MR. WHATLEY: Under the plain language of theUnited contract, yes, Your Honor, because it says noextracontractual damages.QUESTION: And do you take the position that hecouldn't even determine liability?MR. WHATLEY: No, Your Honor, I don't take th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC that --QUESTION: Well, who --QUESTION: Then why isn't this premature? Imean, as Justice Ginsburg says, suppose he finds noviolation? That's the end of it.MR. WHATLEY: It -- it -- it's premature becauseit -- it is a -- it is -- it is a wasted process if youcan go through a proceeding --QUESTION: You mean it's not premature.MR. WHATLEY: To go through the arbitrationprocess, when you know in advance that -- that thearbitrator can't fully remedy the violation --QUESTION: But maybe the arbitrator will run --reach a conclusion that is consistent with the contract,say simple contract damages, and then it is not a waste of time.MR. WHATLEY: But Your Honor, that's exactlywhat Judge Moreno did.QUESTION: Why doesn't --MR. WHATLEY: Judge Moreno said that thecontract claim goes to the arbitrator.QUESTION: Well, so then you're splitting thething up.MR. WHATLEY: But -- but Your Honor, you splitthings up in Byrd. th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC QUESTION: Well --MR. WHATLEY: You split things up in Volt. And-- and I mean, that is not -- there are many cases wheresome cases go to arbitration and some cases --QUESTION: Well --MR. WHATLEY: And some claims stay in court.QUESTION: But what you're saying is, one issuegoes to arbitration, the other one doesn't.MR. WHATLEY: And then the parties decide, dothey want to pursue that issue in arbitration.QUESTION: That just really complicates theprocedure.MR. WHATLEY: Actually, it did not. In thisinstance, it really simplified the situation, because herewhat you're dealing with, and what the focus of the claims are on, is -- is the automatic adjudication of claims theway they -- the way they adjudicate claims of doctorsthrough computerized processes that by computerizationautomatically down-code a bundle.You're dealing with claims that are $, $,$, that frankly can't be resolved through an arbitrationprocess or any process on a claim by claim basis, but thejudge said, you've got to go forward in arbitration on thebreach of contract claims and, since those weren'tpractical to pursue in any forum, we made the decision, th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC and the -- and the doctors, the individual doctors madethe decision not to pursue them. Those are over. It wasresolved very efficiently in the district court on whetherthe claims should be arbitrated or not arbitrated, andthat dispute ended, and -- and so it was done very, veryefficiently in this instance.QUESTION: When you wrote that word, or whoeverwrote it, the word extracontractual, no extracontractualdamages, now, I guess it could mean one of two things. Itcould mean what you think it means, which is, you can'tbring any tort cases, all you can bring are contractcases, you can't bring any statutory cases in arbitration,or it might mean, if you happen to have a contract case,if that's the nature of the case, you cannot give damagesfor mental suffering or other kinds of punitive damages in a contract case.Now, if you were drafting this, and you wantedit to mean the first, rather than meaning the second, whydidn't you just write the words, there won't be a tortcase?MR. WHATLEY: Well --QUESTION: Why didn't you just write the words,there won't be a statutory case?MR. WHATLEY: Well --QUESTION: Why did you run all around Robin th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC Hood's barn in order to -- whatever they -- my -- Rob --whatever you say. I mean, why did you get such acomplicated way just to tell people, we don't want tortcases in -- or this arbitration?MR. WHATLEY: Your Honor, first of all, I didn'twrite this.QUESTION: Of course you didn't.(Laughter.)QUESTION: I'm sorry, I didn't mean to suggestit's your fault.MR. WHATLEY: This is -- this is -- this is inthe form contract that United presented to -- to doctorsand medical groups and had them sign under a section thatsays, resolution of disputes, that only refers toarbitration when you get down into the print. It's noteven -- it's not even entitled arbitration, but -- but --but I mean, could I have written it differently to say --of course I could.But I mean -- I mean, they wrote it, and -- and-- and it's really our position that they wrote it todiscourage doctors from being able to -- to -- to recoverclaims in arbitration, and to limit what doctors couldrecover, not only to send them to arbitration, but thenalso to place limits on what they could get once they gotthere, because they didn't limit, they didn't have a th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC provision, like they seem to say in their briefs, wewaive, each party waives punitive damages against theother, and then you would have to consider under Statelaw, can you do that, depending on where you are. Instead, they say --QUESTION: That is not an objection, in its --in itself, that goes to the question presented here, thefact that you think it's a one-sided contract. I mean,there are lots of one-sided contracts that are enforced.MR. WHATLEY: Well, that's true, but I think ithas to be taken into the mix. That -- that's absolutelyright, there -- there are one-sided contracts that areenforced, and -- and lots of one-sided arbitrationcontracts that are enforced, but --QUESTION: I'm not clear on what you lose at the end of the day if you let the arbitrator decide whetherthere was a RICO violation, and if there is such aviolation, then you reach the remedy issue, and if thearbitrator were somehow to take the position that trebledamages were not available, I assume that could then beresolved in court, could it not? I mean, what do you loseat the end of the day?MR. WHATLEY: Well, here's -- here's the problemwith that, especially if you read the -- the EleventhCircuit RICO decisions. The issue of remedy -- th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC QUESTION: Uh-huh.MR. WHATLEY: -- and -- and in cases like Sykes,and I apologize, this is going beyond what's in thebriefs, but I'm trying to answer your question.QUESTION: Uh-huh.MR. WHATLEY: And -- and in cases like Sykes,the issue of damages, either to the individual plaintiffs,or the damages to the class --QUESTION: Uh-huh.MR. WHATLEY: -- are so wound up in the questionof RICO violation that what you're left with, then, istrying the case twice if you do it the way you suggest.Now --QUESTION: I don't understand that. If thedamages initially are compensatory, I mean, the difference between punitive damages and these treble damages is, youget a number that's compensatory, and then you multiply itby three. It's not, you send it to the jury and the sky'sthe limit, so I don't understand your answer about itbeing bound up with anything -- it's -- it's an ordinarymeasure of compensatory damages that the judge, thearbitrator or the judge, whichever forum you're in,triples.MR. WHATLEY: I'm sorry, Justice Ginsburg, Ithought I was answering the question of -- of what's the th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC problem with trying violation first, assuming thearbitrator couldn't award damages, and then trying damageslater.QUESTION: But I thought that you were answeringthat question, but you're saying the reason you can't try,was there a RICO violation first, is that the remedy isinextricably bound up with --MR. WHATLEY: That's right.QUESTION: -- the answer to that question.MR. WHATLEY: That's right, so if the arbitratorcouldn't award damages in the first place, you would betrying damages in the first instance. You would only geta determination of violation, and then you would go backsomewhere else, presumably, and try the question ofremedy, and you would retry the question of damages. QUESTION: I don't follow that.QUESTION: No, but if the arbitrator can awardsimple damages --MR. WHATLEY: If the arbitrator --QUESTION: -- one times one damages, then thatobjection doesn't apply.MR. WHATLEY: Then that takes away thatobjection, but I didn't understand that to be the questionI was asked.QUESTION: And that may -- and that may be what th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC the arbitrator decides.MR. WHATLEY: Well, it -- it -- it could be whatthe arbitrator decides. Under our reading of what Unitedwrote out there, and under our reading of no punitivedamages, after this Court has developed the concept ofpunitive damages in Gore, so -- I mean, there's almost apresumed trebling issue there, that if you get much belowthat, beyond that, there become constitutional questions.With -- with the development of that, then --then we don't see there -- we see severe problems,especially as that law developed, and especially as thetax, your -- your -- based on your tax decisions, sayingtreble damages are punitive damages.QUESTION: And we've also said that --QUESTION: It seems to me that what you're --you're -- you're doing is, you're saying that it'snecessary for us to declare the -- the scope of thearbitration in court before the arbitration proceeds. That's what the argument amounts to --MR. WHATLEY: No --QUESTION: -- and I think that's inconsistentwith the whole idea of the efficiencies to be obtained bythe arbitral process.MR. WHATLEY: What -- what I'm saying is muchmore limited than that, Your Honor. What I'm saying is th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC that in instances where someone like United or Pacificaredecides not only to insist on an arbitration agreement butalso to place limits on what the remedies are that thearbitrator can award, and that's what they did here, inthose instances, the Court should look at what thoselimitations are on remedies and make a public policydetermination if there's a Federal statutory claim outthere.QUESTION: Well, then you're opening up --you're really expanding the gateway concept. In otherwords, you're no longer talking about, did the partiesagree to submit this to arbitration. You're talking aboutremedial terms.MR. WHATLEY: Well, Your Honor, remedy isdifferent than procedure, and -- and -- and -- and as I read Howsam -- and obviously, I mean, you know, it's afresh opinion. You all are all much closer to it than Iam, but as I read Howsam, it draws the procedural,substantive distinction. Remedies are not proceduralissues, and remedies can have a direct impact on publicpolicy questions, and so for that limited area --QUESTION: Well, but of course, you can sayprocedural issues will have an impact on public policyissues, too.MR. WHATLEY: Well, you certainly can, and if th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC they go far enough, and I think that's what you weresaying in Green Tree, had the record gone far enough inGreen Tree, what the Court -- the court said, there couldbe instances where the limitations that are placed on,procedurally on getting to arbitration go far enough thatthey void the arbitration clause --QUESTION: We --MR. WHATLEY: -- but the record there didn't gofar enough.QUESTION: Well, and we didn't -- we did notexpress a view as to what the situation would be if therecord had been different. We simply said, conceivably itmight.MR. WHATLEY: That -- that -- that's true, YourHonor, which I assume, and courts below I think are now, there are situations where records are being developedfurther to determine, so that the trial courts can makethat determination, has the remedy, has the arbitrationprocess been so impeded by those procedural issues thatyou can't enforce it.QUESTION: Could two parties agree in advancethat if a RICO violation comes up they will only havedouble damages, nothing about arbitration, just in court?MR. WHATLEY: No, Your Honor.QUESTION: They cannot? th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC MR. WHATLEY: No.QUESTION: Can -- can you do it in an antitrustcase?MR. WHATLEY: No.QUESTION: Can you ever do it?MR. WHATLEY: In -- in our judgment, Your Honor,you -- you cannot do it.QUESTION: Can two parties agree in a tort suitthat -- before there's a tort committed, that if there isa tort, no damages greater than a million dollars inpunitives will be collected?MR. WHATLEY: It depends on the State law.QUESTION: So why doesn't it --MR. WHATLEY: That's a State law question.QUESTION: -- but under Federal law you cannot -- it's void against public policy to limit in anyway any possible damages in a future lawsuit?MR. WHATLEY: Your Honor, in Mc --QUESTION: Is there -- has that been decided? I --MR. WHATLEY: In McMahon you said that -- thatparties cannot waive securities, future securitiesviolations even if there was a deal so that you got alower -- a lower payment for the transaction.In Barrentine you said, either parties or unions th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC can't respectively waive Fair Labor Standards Actviolations in the future.QUESTION: The question didn't go to waiving theviolations.MR. WHATLEY: I --QUESTION: It went only to the remedy.MR. WHATLEY: It went to remedy, and what you'vegot, Your Honor, I think is, Congress has established whatthat remedy is, and I think it would be void as againstpublic policy. I mean --QUESTION: But you then want us to adopt aspecific gateway rule when any arbitration agreementlimits a statutory remedy, and that statutory violationwould be arbitrable, and as I understand it, your rule is,any limitation in an arbitration agreement of statutory remedy raises a question of public policy, a question ofpublic policy is a gateway arbitrability question, and italways goes to the court first. Is --MR. WHATLEY: Yes, sir.QUESTION: Is that a fair statement --MR. WHATLEY: Yes, sir. For that --QUESTION: -- your position?MR. WHATLEY: For that limited issue of, did the-- did the limitation, is there a limitation on the remedyauthorized by Congress. th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC QUESTION: And that's, I guess you want to sayfor -- leaving arbitration out of it, that sounds veryfar-reaching, because I would have thought the mattermight have varied, depending upon the statute. I mean, Iwould have thought Congress could sometimes pass a statutewith remedies, that it would not be against public policyfor two private persons to limit --MR. WHATLEY: Your Honor, Congress --QUESTION: Was it always -- in your view,always, no matter what the statute, two people cannot sayin advance, we will, if there should -- should a violationarise, we will agree that, in advance, that the limitationwill not exceed $ million -- or the damages won'texceed -- put in some reasonable amount?MR. WHATLEY: I suppose in theory Congress could say, in the act, parties can waive this respectively.QUESTION: It's only waiving, putting alimitation on damages.MR. WHATLEY: Congress -- Congress has not donethat, and yes, Your Honor, that is our position. IfCongress establishes a remedy for a violation, and I thinkthis is discussed in much more detail in the PublicCitizen amicus brief that's submitted than it was in ourbriefs, because we were trying to address the specific --QUESTION: Yeah, yeah, yeah. th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC MR. WHATLEY: -- arbitration issues andlimitations within arbitration, which is the issue beforethis Court.QUESTION: Well, but that's -- I think Vimarcuts the other way, so the COGSA -- COGSA was certainly astatute enacted by Congress.MR. WHATLEY: And -- and the Court said, it'snot clear here whether that's going to be followed or notfollowed.QUESTION: Yes.MR. WHATLEY: I think you said, it is not clearto us whether that will be followed or not followed inthis instance, and that's --QUESTION: If --MR. WHATLEY: That's why you allowed it to proceed.QUESTION: If your view was correct, that wholeissue should have gone to a judge beforehand.MR. WHATLEY: Well, except that there's no -- Idon't read that. There are two issues --QUESTION: You don't what?MR. WHATLEY: I don't read that as sayingspecifically that that act would not be followed, numberone, their contract.Number two, there is the separate consideration th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC there, as in Mitsubishi, of the concerns aboutinternational, of international relations, where you havesaid you've got to be especially hands off, and that issueis not involved here.QUESTION: Well, but what's involved, which isidentical, is the kind of prudential consideration forcourts, don't decide a difficult issue unless you have to. Now, in Vimar it just said, look, we may never have todecide this. Send it to the arbitrator and see.Now what you've suggested is to my mind a prettytough issue.MR. WHATLEY: Well --QUESTION: And we may never have to decide it,or at least not soon.MR. WHATLEY: Well, you might not. QUESTION: Yes.MR. WHATLEY: You might not, but it's not just,it's a tough issue, send it to the arbitrator and let thearbitrator decide.QUESTION: The arbitrator will interpret thecontract to see if it really arises.MR. WHATLEY: But Number , it's also in aninternational setting, where we've got to be, be, youknow, be concerned about that and grant all possibledeference to that situation. th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC If there are not other questions --QUESTION: I have one question, and it's aboutsomething that the petitioner represented in thepetitioners' brief at note , page .The petitioner represented to us that yourepresented to this Court that if any issue is sent toarbitration you simply will give up the claim, that youwill not arbitrate any issue in this case. Do you stilltake that position, that -- is this representationcorrect, that you have disclaimed any intention toarbitrate any claim sent to arbitration?MR. WHATLEY: Your Honor, that gets back to theproblem that I was addressing before. The claims here ona claim by claim basis are so small that you cannot takethem to arbitration.QUESTION: Well, let's take the RICO claim. Ifyou lose on where that goes first, if it goes toarbitration first, are you -- are you saying that you willnot -- that you will abandon the case anyway?MR. WHATLEY: Well, it's not abandoning thecase, Your Honor, because there is a separate conspiracyand aiding and abetting claim that is going forward thatis not up before this Court.QUESTION: But I mean the --MR. WHATLEY: And the claim here, if we have to th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC -- have to resolve those, even the RICO claims, even ifyou treble $ to get $, if we have to try those on aclaim by claim basis, in terms of what the doctors'damages are, it can't be done, and we will not proceed.QUESTION: But why would the trial be differentin court versus arbitration on that?MR. WHATLEY: Well, because -- and -- and -- andI know you're going to address this issue in Basil to someextent, but the issue in court, the issues have beencertified in the court, so they're proceeding as a classaction, which is the only way that -- that claims of thismagnitude can be handled, and so that's our problem. Ifwe could proceed in arbitration on a class-wide basis,sure we would do it, and -- and doing that in the Federalsystem has limits thus far, but -- but proceeding on a claim by claim basis, where the damages are $, $, $,$ for the bundling down claim --QUESTION: Have you gotten a certification ofanything in the district court? Did you --MR. WHATLEY: Yes, Your Honor.QUESTION: You did?MR. WHATLEY: Yes. Yes. The trial court hascertified the claims that -- that -- that are -- that are-- that -- that -- that -- that were not referred toarbitration. The -- that currently is on appeal, on a th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC (f) appeal to the Eleventh Circuit. We've movingforward with discovery on those claims that are certified.QUESTION: How broad is it? Is it Nationwide?MR. WHATLEY: Yes, Your Honor, it's Nationwide.QUESTION: Thank you, Mr. Whatley.MR. WHATLEY: Thank you, Your Honors.QUESTION: Mr. Grauer, you have minutes left.REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF WILLIAM E. GRAUERON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONERSMR. GRAUER: Mr. Whatley's argument about $here and $ there is flatly inconsistent with what thedistrict judge found, and you can note at page A of ourcert petition that the court found that these cases werenegotiated by sophisticated groups of doctors, that theclaims were not small, that in fact the doctors were enlarging an ongoing pattern -- that's about midwaythrough page A of our cert petition, that that is anongoing pattern of instances.Mr. Whatley's comment about the -- theconspiracy claim has been certified and is going forwardis exactly an example of the problem. Conspiracy issimply a remedy that's -- that -- a way of creatingliability for an underlying cause of action, and thearbitration clauses in this case require the doctors toarbitrate all of their disputes with the managed care th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC companies, and they're trying to circumvent that on a massbasis both in this appeal and by trying to say that theconspiracy claims are not part of the arbitration clause,and we don't think that's appropriate, and we think whenwe talk about remedies in our cert petition, that wouldinclude methods of holding someone liable for a claim, andthe Court ought to take a look at that in the record ofthe case.But I would agree fundamentally with a pointthat I -- I thought I heard Justice Souter making a momentago, and that is that if Mr. Whatley's premise that anyremedial limitation becomes a gateway issue ofarbitrability, we are throwing -- we are overruling Howsamafter only a few weeks, because the whole point of Howsamwas, you look to whether the parties made an agreement to arbitrate, and you look to whether the dispute is in thescope of the agreement.And here, at page A of our petition, the Courtfinds this is an exceptionally broad arbitrationagreement. It includes any and all controversies, and theCourt found that. That has never been appealed. Every --all of the claims are within the scope of it, and it iscomplete speculation to suggest that that, that any ofthese claims are not within the scope of the arbitrationagreement. th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC The -- the -- with re -- a final point withreference to the intent of the parties. The parties wouldintend an arbitrator to decide remedial limitations, andthe reason why the parties would intend the arbitrator todecide that is because the parties have agreed toarbitrate. They have a dispute in the scope. They wouldnever intend to go to court at all. They would intend togo to arbitration and comply with their agreement, and thequestion of remedies would be the last thing that wouldcome up in the event, on a speculative basis, that theyprevail, and they ought not to be able to get away fromthat basic principle by labels, the label of punitivedamages, the label of RICO, the label of conspiracy. Those labels are being used to take away the rights ofmanaged care companies on a wholesale, nationwide basis to have these types of disputes resolved by arbitrators, asthe parties have agreed, and instead they're trying toturn it into a nationwide class action.CHIEF JUSTICE REHNQUIST: Thank you, Mr. Grauer.The case is submitted.(Whereupon, at : a.m., the case in theabove-entitled matter was submitted.) th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC 