 IN THE SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -XGRUPO DATAFLUX, Petitioner :: v. : No. -ATLAS GLOBAL GROUP, ET AL. :- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -X Washington, D.C. Wednesday, March , The above-entitled matter came on for oralargument before the Supreme Court of the United States at: a.m.APPEARANCES:WILLIAM J. BOYCE, ESQ., Houston, Texas; on behalf of the Petitioner.ROGER B. GREENBERG, ESQ., Houston, Texas; on behalf of the Respondents., Inc. C O N T E N T SORAL ARGUMENT OF WILLIAM J. BOYCE, ESQ. On behalf of the Petitioner ROGER B. GREENBERG, ESQ. On behalf of the Respondents REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF WILLIAM J. BOYCE, ESQ. On behalf of the Petitioner PAGE , Inc. P R O C E E D I N G S (: a.m.) CHIEF JUSTICE REHNQUIST: We'll hear argumentnext No. -, Grupo Dataflux v. Atlas Global Group. Mr. Boyce. ORAL ARGUMENT OF WILLIAM J. BOYCE ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONER MR. BOYCE: Mr. Chief Justice, and may it pleasethe Court: The central question here is whether Atlas'post-filing change in citizenship should be allowed tocreate retroactive diversity jurisdiction in this case. To justify rewriting the longstanding time offiling rule, Atlas relies on the fact that this case was tried to verdict before the jurisdictional issue was identified and raised in the district court. QUESTION: May I ask you with respect to that?When you found out that you had this fundamentaljurisdictional objection, when did you know that thepartnership included partners not only Texas entities buttwo Mexican citizens? When did you find that out? MR. BOYCE: There are two answers to yourquestion, Justice Ginsburg. In terms of when we becameaware of the issue, that was after verdict, and that'sreflected in the affidavit which appears in the record at, Inc. volume I, page . In terms of the question of was there evidencein the record that could have been pieced together toidentify this issue earlier, the answer to that questionis yes. If -- if -- it probably could have beenidentified earlier, should have been identified earlier,but it was not. QUESTION: There's a curious thing about what Dataflux did. Dataflux at one point moved to add the Mexicans as individuals as counterdefendants. MR. BOYCE: Correct. QUESTION: And why would it do that if they weremembers of the partnership. If -- if it was sure thatthey were members of the partnership, then you wouldn'tneed to make them defendants as individuals becausepartners have individual liability. MR. BOYCE: Two answers to that -- thatquestion, Your Honor. First, under the Texas RevisedLimited Partnership Act, the -- the partnership can sue -­the limited partnership can sue on its own without theparticipation of the limited partners. In terms of all ofthe counterclaims against Llamosa and Robles, again underthe Texas statute, we can choose to sue the partnershipitself or we can sue individual limited partners. In thiscircumstance, our counterclaim against them was predicated , Inc. not on their status as limited partners, but rather on thefact that Mr. Llamosa and Mr. Robles made affirmativemisrepresentations, was our position, directly to us toinduce us to enter the contract that led to the -- thelawsuit. So -­QUESTION: But at that stage, you called thememployees or former employees. So it seems that the -­that you had some inkling. MR. BOYCE: There -- there was some confusionearly on in terms of what exactly their status was and we,Dataflux, did not thoroughly explore that issue early on.And -- and that should have been done earlier. But I would also note that the bottom line hereis that -- is that Atlas, the party with unique knowledgeof the exact circumstances of its partnership at the timeof filing, is the party here who filed the case in Federalcourt at a time when there was not diversity jurisdiction.There certainly could have been more that we should havedone to explore the issue earlier. QUESTION: Well, you've admitted it. You -- youjust admitted it flat out in your answer. MR. BOYCE: Yes, Your Honor. There wereadmissions that jurisdiction existed, but I would hastento add that pursuant to the longstanding rule thatjurisdiction cannot be stipulated to, agreed to, created , Inc. by estoppel or waiver, that those statements are noteffective to create jurisdiction if it does not exist atthe outset. And -- and I would emphasize the languagethat was relied on most recently in this Court's decisionin Kontrick from January in which the Court noted that acourt's subject matter jurisdiction cannot be expanded toaccount for the parties' conduct during litigation. And Ithink that principle addresses that. Is there more that could have been done toexplore this earlier -- this issue earlier and bring itup? The answer to that question is yes, but I don't thinkthat that circumstance undermines the fundamental rulehere, which is that as of the time of filing, there wasnot a diversity present, and because of that -­QUESTION: Well, there was in the constitutionalsense. There wasn't under the statute. There wasdiversity, but not complete diversity. MR. BOYCE: I think the -- there is some room todiscuss that, Justice Ginsburg, in light of the dissent'scontention that there was, in fact, no diversity where youhave one litigant here, one plaintiff, one defendant, andboth are citizens of Mexico at that time. It may be asituation where -­QUESTION: But that's not what -- well, correctme if I'm wrong. I thought that Atlas is a partnership. , Inc. MR. BOYCE: That is correct. QUESTION: And that it -- and that there arethree players involved -- five. Two are Mexican and threeare Texan. MR. BOYCE: There -- there -­QUESTION: So then you would have on one sideTexan and Mexican and the other side Texan. If you dropout the Mexicans, then you're left, from the plaintiff'sside -- you're left with a complete diversity case. MR. BOYCE: Atlas is one entity with multiplecitizenships, and -- and if -- if the question suggeststhat there was some kind of a -- a dismissal mechanismavailable to make the -- the Mexican citizenship go away,I don't believe that that is available under the facts ofthis case because it's -- it -- there were -­QUESTION: But it's what happened. They did goaway for a reason unrelated to this lawsuit. MR. BOYCE: Pursuant to Atlas' decision tochange the constitution of its partnership after the timeof filing and before the case was submitted to the -- tothe jury. That is correct, Your Honor. QUESTION: Yes, long before the case was tried. MR. BOYCE: Before the -- approximate -­QUESTION: Well, so when the case -- when thiscase was tried, there was complete diversity., Inc. MR. BOYCE: That is correct. Approximately weeks prior to trial, the change in Atlas' compositionbecame effective so that at that point there would -­there is complete diversity if that post-filing change isgiven effect. And I would submit to the Court that under thelongstanding rule, going back as far as in Mollan v.Torrance, reflected in the decision in Anderson v.Watt, that the longstanding rule has been, and shouldcontinue to be in this case, that post changes -­QUESTION: I thought in Mollan v. Torranceexactly what I described happened. Chief Justice Marshallsaid you've got one spoiler on the plaintiffs' side. Takeit out and you'll have complete diversity. MR. BOYCE: I think that the statement inMollan, as reflected in Conolly and then applied inAnderson v. Watt, Your Honor, is that if the change incircumstances is the result of the addition or subtractionof a party, that's one circumstance, but here we havesomething entirely different, which is a change incitizenship. It would be the same as if a plaintiff hadlived in one State and then moved to another State. QUESTION: No, it's not the same. It isn't thesame because a partnership is a citizen of every State inwhich a partner resides. Isn't that correct?, Inc. MR. BOYCE: Correct, under Carden. QUESTION: So you have, just as if you'd havefive individuals -- that's what they are in fact -- ineffect, because they're jointly and severally liable. Soyou have, as I said before, three Texan and two Mexicans.You don't have one person that can say, ah, I'm going todefeat diversity by moving where I live, or I'm going tocreate diversity. You -- none of these people'scitizenships has ever changed. That's quite differentfrom somebody saying, I want to change my citizenship. MR. BOYCE: I would respectfully disagree, YourHonor, because I think Atlas' citizenship changed byvirtue of changing the composition of its partnership, andthat is on all fours the same circumstance as if a -- alitigant had lived in one State and then tried to move toanother State in an effort to create retroactive diversityjurisdiction. QUESTION: But it didn't leave Texas behind.Texas was always there. The Mexican partners left. So Ijust don't see that it's anything like -- I mean, this -­as I said before, there's the same five people. Two dropout and so you've got three Texans, and there were alwaysthree Texans. They didn't move to Texas. They were therefrom the start. MR. BOYCE: The -- the function of Atlas, Inc. changing its citizenship after the time of filing andthereafter claiming -- this is Atlas' argument -- thatthat cures our jurisdictional defect, I would submit tothe Court, is the same thing as a citizen moving from oneState to the other because, in effect, what Atlas issaying, by relying on that argument, is we moved out of -­move out of Mexico and -- and resided exclusively in Texasas of the time of suit. That is the whole basis forAtlas' argument as to why the jurisdictional defect,according to Atlas, was cured as of the time of trial.And I think that's where the -- the conflict comes in withthe change of -­QUESTION: If Atlas had been a corporationincorporated in Texas, then there would have been completediversity. Right? MR. BOYCE: I'm -- I didn't -­QUESTION: If Atlas -- instead of being apartnership composed of five members, it had organized asa corporation, as a Texas corporation. MR. BOYCE: Then it would be under the -- thedifferent provision of . It would be a citizen of itsplace of incorporation and its principal place ofbusiness, and that would not be the issue that -- that wehave here today. QUESTION: But would -- would -- my question is , Inc. wouldn't the -- if these -- if this entity had beenorganized as a corporation, there would have been completediversity. MR. BOYCE: There -- there -- yes, there wouldnot be an issue here because of a different operation of as applied to corporations, but the point of Cardenwas, as -- as I read the case, is that limitedpartnerships are going to be treated differently. QUESTION: Yes. MR. BOYCE: There is no analog from corporate -­QUESTION: But I don't want to belabor this anyfurther, but you do see the difference between anindividual moving from New York to New Jersey, say, and a-- a partnership with five partners, all of whom remainwhere they are. They don't move anyplace else. Thosepartners, those live human beings, stay exactly what theywere. Their citizenship doesn't change. MR. BOYCE: I understand the -- the point, andour position is that when Atlas contends that it has curedthe jurisdictional defect by changing the composition ofits partnership, that is effectively the same as thelitigant moving from New Jersey to New York and claiming Ihave -- I have fixed the jurisdictional problem because mycitizenship has changed. It comes down to a change incitizenship, and I think that's what implicates the , Inc. longstanding rule that the Court has enforced repeatedly. QUESTION: Mr. Boyce, can I ask you a question about how far your position extends? You say that it wasn't too late to -- to raise the jurisdictional issue when you did. Supposing there had been a trial andinstead of your losing, you had won, and then you knewabout the jurisdictional defect, and then you waited tosee what would happen on appeal. Then you lost on appeal.And then you decided to raise the jurisdictional defect.Would you say that was -- they would then be required todismiss? MR. BOYCE: Yes, Your Honor. I think the -­QUESTION: All right. Suppose then it wasaffirmed and then you decided you didn't realize it untilafter the judgment had been entered and become final andso forth, and then a year later you find out about it.Could you raise it then? MR. BOYCE: I don't think it would be the propersubject of a collateral attack after the initial case inwhich it has been adjudicated is over with. But in termsof where along the line within that case can it be raised,our position is it can be raised, indeed, must beraised -­QUESTION: So you say it can always be raised ondirect -- while -- until final judgment is entered, but it , Inc. can never be raised on collateral attack. MR. BOYCE: That is my understanding. And -­and I think the most closely analogous case to thehypothetical that -- that you're putting forth would bethe Capron v. Noorden case from . It was discussed in-- in this Court's recent decision in Kontrick where inthat case the plaintiff who had filed the case in Federalcourt lost at trial and then went up on appeal to thisCourt. The plaintiff who filed the case at that latestage identified the lack of jurisdiction, and then theCourt said there is no jurisdiction here. If there's nojurisdiction, there's no jurisdiction and the -- thetiming of the conduct of it is not germane to that inquirybecause it's not something that can be created by theparties' litigation conduct -­QUESTION: We have to punish you some other way,maybe fine you or make you pay costs for the other side,but we cannot punish you for that by expanding our ownjurisdiction. That's your point. MR. BOYCE: That -- that's our point. QUESTION: Capron against Noorden was one partyon one side, one party on the other. It wasn't a casewhere at the time of the trial there was completediversity. I frankly have a hard time distinguishing this , Inc. case from Caterpillar which started out non-diverse butbefore trial, became diverse. MR. BOYCE: I -- I would like to address thecircumstances under which this case is distinguishablefrom Caterpillar because that obviously is -- is whatAtlas relies very heavily on in its briefing. And I think there are a number of importantdistinctions here, the first and foremost being that thecitizenship of the parties to the final judgment inCaterpillar did not change. That was a circumstance wherethe -- the diversity-spoiling litigant was dismissedpursuant to rule . That is not our circumstance here. QUESTION: So if the -- this would be the sameif the -- Atlas had come to the court and said, now,court, I want you to dismiss the two Mexicans becausethey're no longer part of the corporation, and gotten anorder to -- to do that. MR. BOYCE: That would be a differentcircumstance. I -- I hasten to add that in terms of Atlassuing Dataflux, Mr. Llamosa and Mr. Robles were notplaintiffs. Atlas itself was the plaintiff, and theproblem arises because of the -- the Mexican citizenshipof Mr. Llamosa and Robles is attributed to Atlas. But if -- if a different circumstance is -- ishypothesized where there's a dismissal, then I think that , Inc. brings rule into play. As -- as the Court discussed in-- in the Newman-Green decision, there is a source ofauthority for addressing that circumstance under rule . Here we have a situation where this is not aremoval case, this is not a dismissal case, and thequestion arises -­QUESTION: My question was could they havedismissed and -- and as far as removal, I perhaps don'tremember Caterpillar that well, but of course, it aroseout of a removal. That's how it happened. But the Courtdidn't make the removal dispositive. MR. BOYCE: Your Honor, I -- I would not presumeto -- to say what the -- the Court meant to do, but Iwould highlight the discussion in the subsequent Lexeconcase where the point, I think, was made that indeedCaterpillar was grounded on the removal statute andspecifically section , the issue being in Caterpillarthat the case was not fit for Federal adjudication at thetime of removal and that that was the error. There was anuntimely compliance with -­QUESTION: Yes. It certainly was a , andthe opinion certainly alerts district judges that when acase comes over from the State court, maybe you ought tolook at it to make sure that there is Federaljurisdiction. But I didn't think that there was anything , Inc. peculiar about and the obligation of a judge to lookinto jurisdiction. I don't know why the same thingwouldn't apply to . MR. BOYCE: I would submit, Your Honor, thatthere are different -- there's a different statutoryoverlay that -- that was being addressed in Caterpillar,the overlay of the removal statutes. Here we're under acircumstance where this -- this is not a removal case.Therefore, we are under section alone, and the -- thelongstanding rule that the citizenship is going to bemeasured as of the time of filing. At -- at this stagewhere the rule has been followed for some years, Ibelieve that similar to a complete diversity requirement,it is now part and parcel of section . So there --there's no removal overlay to be addressed. And -- and there's an additional circumstancehere that I think in significant part, Caterpillaroperates to protect a defendant's right to removal. The -- the removal in that case -- the removal right was subject to being lost because of the timing of the dismissal of the non-diverse party. There was a -- aproblem for Caterpillar in bumping up against the -yeartime limit. In other words, Caterpillar operates toprotect a -- a right to invoke the Federal forum. Here, by definition -­ , Inc. QUESTION: Well, I don't -- I don't follow thatbecause it was wrongfully removed by the defendant, had noright to be in the Federal forum when he got there, and -­and the poor plaintiff who wanted to be in the State courtgot stuck with losing a Federal court case. So it wasn'tprotecting the defendant right to remove. The defendanthad no right to remove. It wasn't a proper Federal caseuntil -- who was it -- one of the parties got dropped out. MR. BOYCE: I -- I would go back to Lexecon'sdescription of Caterpillar which is that there was an -­QUESTION: Why don't you go back toCaterpillar's description of Caterpillar? MR. BOYCE: Yes, Your Honor. I -- I think at -­at bottom Caterpillar cannot be divorced from the removalcontext in which it arose. And it -- it was -- it was -­QUESTION: Do you rely on a distinction betweena defendant's right to a Federal forum and the plaintiff'sto a Federal forum? It seems to me they're exactly the same. At the time it's invoked, it's -- there's no Federal jurisdiction. MR. BOYCE: I think that under certain circumstances Congress has made a distinction between adefendant's right to invoke a Federal forum and aplaintiff's right to invoke a Federal forum. QUESTION: Then are you -- are you saying this, Inc. is -- is the rule you rely on a constitutional rule or astatutory rule? MR. BOYCE: It is a -- primarily a statutoryrule operating -­QUESTION: In other words, you don't say theConstitution would prohibit us from affirming. MR. BOYCE: I -- I need to qualify my answer,Justice Stevens, because under some circumstances theremay be Article III implications here because if -- if it'sa circumstance where you have just an issue of whether ornot there's complete diversity, then that's a statutoryissue. But if -- if retroactive diversity is beingrecognized so as to allow a case to remain in Federalcourt for some or years, as happened in thissituation, where there isn't even Article III diversityrequirement -- let's say you have an alien versus an alienwith no citizen present. That does have Article IIIimplications. QUESTION: So there's a -- there's no subjectjurisdiction as a matter of constitutional law, just nosubject matter jurisdiction. But nevertheless, you saythere could be no -- no collateral attack on the judgment.I'm not sure that I understand the -- why there couldn'tbe a collateral attack if you're dead right on this. MR. BOYCE: I think that -- and I -- I cannot , Inc. cite the case that -- that I'm relying on for that, but inthe -- in the course of reviewing, I -- I believe that Isaw the -- the statement regarding collateral attack. ButI -- QUESTION: You are correct in that respect. QUESTION: I think you're right, but I'm justwondering why. QUESTION: If there -- if there was -- if therewas an adjudication of the jurisdiction in the directcase, that's binding on the parties when the thing hasbecome final, just as well as the merits. MR. BOYCE: But I -- I think maybe the -- theprimary focus here in terms of the applicability of thetime of filing rule is one that -- that turns on the -­the purposes of the time of filing rule. These aresummarized in -- in the -­QUESTION: May I take you back a little way?It is unconstitutional because incomplete diversity isfine. Minimal diversity is fine under the Constitution.The statute, , has always been interpreted to requirecomplete diversity. MR. BOYCE: Correct. QUESTION: When Marshall first mentions that youcan't oust jurisdiction by something that happens after,he doesn't talk about the statute. The cases that you are , Inc. -- are discussing, out of which the timely filing rulearises -- it's a kind of a common law that he's spreadingout. He doesn't cite the -- the jurisdictional statutefor that. MR. BOYCE: I -- I have to agree that -- thatboth Conolly v. Taylor and Mollan v. Torrance do notspecifically anchor it in the statute, and to -- to someextent, I would -- I would have to acknowledge thatthey're somewhat cryptic. But I think the -- the cleareststatutory anchor as the basis of this rule comes fromAnderson v. Watt which, applying Mollan and applyingConolly, does specifically anchor it in the iterationof the diversity statute in the course of its discussion.And -- and I think that's the clearest indication thatthis is indeed -­QUESTION: What was the date of Anderson? ? MR. BOYCE: . Correct. And the point that we would emphasize here, YourHonor, is that the longstanding interpretation, similar tocomplete diversity as discussed in the Owen Equipment v.Kroger case, is now a part and parcel of section andits predecessors. And -- and so it's not a situation merely thatthe Fifth Circuit is -- is stepping into some area wherethe Court did not expressly address it in Caterpillar. I , Inc. think the Fifth Circuit has, in fact, gone beyond that bycreating this new rule because it's a circumstance whereit is going contrary to the longstanding interpretationand understanding of . QUESTION: As I understand the bottom line ofwhat the situation would be, there was a trial betweentotally diverse parties. You -- you say that has to beundone. There's no question now that there's completediversity between these same two parties. So this isn't acase where there's any federalism interest. This wouldn'tgo back to the State court. This is a proper suit for Atlas to bring in Federal court, and so you'd have the same court, the same parties going over exactly the same case, which does seem a terrible waste. MR. BOYCE: I -- I would focus on one portion ofYour Honor's question, which is in terms of an assumptionthat this case automatically would go back to Federalcourt. That may well happen, but we don't know -­QUESTION: No, no. It would be up to Atlas, butAtlas at this point, being totally diverse from Dataflux,could walk in -- the day that Atlas is thrown out, it cancome in the revolving door and say, here's a freshcomplaint. Let's start all over again. MR. BOYCE: I think an underlying assumption ofthat question is that Atlas has not yet again changed its , Inc. -- its partnership, and I do not know the answer to thatquestion. QUESTION: May -- may I ask you is there anotherimpediment that you do know about like the statute of limitations? MR. BOYCE: There will be an issue -- the answerto your question is that -- that whether or notlimitations would prevent -- present an obstacle to Atlasis going to be determined under the Texas savings statuteand/or the New York savings statute. There was a choiceof law dispute in the case. QUESTION: Well, I assumed -- I assumed youlooked into this. MR. BOYCE: And there is a -- a savings statute,assuming Texas law applies, that would allow Atlas torefile suit. One point that I would note -- and -- and thisis outside the scope of the record, but I -- I would putit before the Court to completely answer the question -­is that Atlas already has refiled once within days ofthe initial dismissal. It refiled in Federal court andthen subsequently dismissed the second Federal courtlawsuit. There may be an issue under the savings statutein terms of how many times do you get to refile, and -­and I don't know the answer to that. We haven't looked at , Inc. that specifically. But there is a savings statuteavailable, and -- and I presume Atlas would invoke it. QUESTION: At what point did they file andrefile? Because the court of appeals held in their favor. MR. BOYCE: They filed after the trial courtdismissal and before the Fifth Circuit held in theirfavor, and I believe that the -- the second suit was filedin December of and dismissed in approximately Octoberof . I think that's the chronology of it. QUESTION: Dismissed after they won on appeal orbefore? MR. BOYCE: I think it was before the -- theFifth Circuit ruled in the case. But the -- the point that I would emphasize isthat the -- the purposes of the time of filing ruletranscend any individual case -­QUESTION: What is it? What is it? I mean,imagine the worst case. A Lithuanian sues a citizen ofTaiwan in New York on July st. On July nd, they bothbecome citizens. Well, what I'm going to ask is what'sthe worst -- I don't see a constitutional problem. Theydidn't notice till after judgment. What's the worst thing that could happen if wewere to say, as a matter of policy, if you like, Federalpolicy, there's an exception to the time of filing rule -­ , Inc. when nobody notices until after the judgment is entered -­to prevent manipulation? What's the worst thing thatwould happen? MR. BOYCE: Justice Breyer, the worst thing thatcan happen is uncertainty in what was formerly a brightline rule in terms of litigants being able to determinewith some certainty whether or not they belong in Federalcourt. And I would also focus on this point, which is I-- I think the one question that the Fifth Circuit andAtlas do not answer is what is the source of authority fora Federal court to recognize this retroactive jurisdictionhere? By process of elimination, we know what it is not.It is not section , because that addresses onlydefective allegations, not defective facts. It is notsection or because this is not a removal case,and it's not rule . So the -- the bottom line inquirythen is what is the source of this authority and -- and Idon't think the authority is there, and in fact this iscontrary to section . And with that, I would reserve the balance of mytime. QUESTION: Very well, Mr. Boyce. Mr. Greenberg, we'll hear from you. ORAL ARGUMENT OF ROGER B. GREENBERG , Inc. ON BEHALF OF THE RESPONDENTS MR. GREENBERG: Mr. Chief Justice, and may itplease the Court: Respondent asks that this Court affirm the FifthCircuit's judgment and hold that, based on this Court'sprecedent, the trial court had subject matter jurisdictionat the time of trial because the lack of completediversity between the parties was cured before trial. This Court unanimously held in Caterpillar thatif the jurisdictional defect is cured before trial andthen a case is tried on the merits and the court hasArticle III -- it's an Article III court, it has subjectmatter jurisdiction, that it has the judicial power to -­to preside over -­QUESTION: Yes, but Caterpillar involved a -- asituation in which the jurisdictional defect was cured bya change in which parties were in the case. That has notoccurred here. MR. GREENBERG: That's correct. QUESTION: The party is the same, and that makesit a different case. You can't possibly say we've decidedthis. MR. GREENBERG: With all due respect, JusticeScalia, our position is that Caterpillar and the threadthrough Caterpillar of Newman-Green and Grubbs points out, Inc. that that is not an issue that was determinative of thedecision. The Court specified unanimously in Caterpillarthat once diversity is cured -- it didn't say has to becured a certain way. It didn't say has to be cured by adispensable party leaving, et cetera. It said simply oncea case has been tried and diversity obtained at the timeof trial, that the -- that -­QUESTION: Well, Caterpillar certainly is not awhite horse case for you. Otherwise, there wouldn't be aconflict in the circuits the way there is. Certainlythere are significant similarities but there aredifferences too. MR. GREENBERG: Respectfully, Chief JusticeRehnquist, our position is that the facts in this case aremuch narrower than Caterpillar. We fall under theumbrella of Caterpillar. Here we did not have, forexample, as in Caterpillar a mistaken challenge at theinception of the case that the Court decided inCaterpillar to overlook when it did not remand the case.There is no issue of that ilk. QUESTION: But there was something that youoverlooked or whoever was representing Atlas. When did Atlas first become aware that thecitizenship of each partner counts for diversity? I mean,this was set up as a Texas business, but in a partnership, , Inc. unlike a corporation, each partner's citizenship countsequally. And when did you first become aware of thatrule? MR. GREENBERG: Justice Ginsburg, I don't knowif the record reflects that issue, but answering yourquestion, I don't think either party in the recordadverted to that issue until the motion to dismiss wasfiled by Grupo Dataflux. Therefore, the case continued onfrom filing through trial to verdict without either partyadverting to the fact that there may have been ajurisdictional problem until after -­QUESTION: Is it your understanding that the -­that the attorney for Atlas in this case would have theobligation to advise the court of the problem the momentit was discovered? Does the attorney have an ethical dutyto advise that the original pleading was -- was misleadingas -- as soon as the attorney finds out that this problemexisted? MR. GREENBERG: Justice Kennedy, I believe so,yes. And I -- and I believe that the parties on eitherside, as well as the court I might add, if the courtlearned of or had an issue would have brought it up, but Ithink certainly counsel had an ethical duty to do so. The -- the issue before you is whether this casecreates a new or different exception to the rule of time , Inc. of filing, and we posit it does not because Caterpillar,contrary to -- to the position of the petitioner -­Caterpillar stands for the propositions, as I have stated,which are overwhelming according to the court. Finalityin that opinion, costs of litigation, litigants waiting inline. That is an exception to the rule of the time offiling. This case falls within much narrower -- becausethe Fifth Circuit said, if it's cured before trial and notraised till after trial, then that's the test. That's amuch narrower test. QUESTION: What -- what's the latest time it canbe raised in the view of the Fifth Circuit? MR. GREENBERG: In the -- in the view of theFifth Circuit, raised before trial -- cured before trial,but not raised -- but raised after is what the court'stest was. QUESTION: Yes, but in your time of filing rule,you -- you have a very definite period. Now, this is anexception. And when is the -- under the rule of the exception, when is the last time this can be raised? MR. GREENBERG: I would -- would --respectfully, Chief Justice Rehnquist, I would thinkbefore trial is -- is the last time it can be raisedbecause Caterpillar says once a case has been tried. It'svery clear. , Inc. And -- and our -- in this case Atlas was triedto a jury. And as Justice Ginsburg correctly pointed out,this case goes right back to the same court. And if theconsiderations of finality, of costs of litigation, ofpeople, litigants waiting in line to have their casestried is to have any meaning, then this Court shouldoverlay that on the facts of this case and say, well, itwould be as Yogi Berra said, deja vu all over again, justto go try this case. QUESTION: Does -- does the record tell us why the partnership was changed in its composition? MR. GREENBERG: The -- the record does not. The -- the record only reflects that -- months before thetrial, the two Mexican partners were bought out, if youwill, were no longer partners. That was not finalizedbecause of some -- it was -- it was final from theparties' standpoint, but there was a technical need forsome document from the NASD, and I'm not sure that's inthe record, that that's why petitioner says, well, it wasreally only finally cured a month before trial. Butnevertheless -­QUESTION: Did the same attorneys represent thepartnership in -- in this change of partner transaction aswere representing the -- Atlas in the litigation? MR. GREENBERG: No. No, Your -- no, Justice, Inc. Kennedy, that is not the case. QUESTION: Do you see any impediment? Or, firstof all, explain to me what that second filing was. Mr.Boyce told us -­MR. GREENBERG: Yes. QUESTION: -- that you filed a second complaint. MR. GREENBERG: That is not in the record, butwhat occurred is when the judge dismissed this case afterthe jury trial, the thought process was, well, let's startanew so that whatever happens on appeal, that case will beadvanced so much it would be tried right away, we thought.But after discussing it and after thinking about it, wedidn't want two cases to go along at the same time. So we-- it -- we dismissed it without prejudice, relying onwhatever happens in this case. QUESTION: So you did that before you knew whatthe outcome was -­MR. GREENBERG: Oh, yes. We did that longbefore we knew what the -- long before we knew what theoutcome or the briefing was in -- in the -- in the FifthCircuit. QUESTION: Do you know of any impediment? Now-- now it's for sure that you can go back to the samecourt with the same parties, do the same thing all overagain. Mr. Boyce said that as far as the Texas statute of , Inc. limitations is concerned, it's not a problem. Is -- isthere anything that -- apart from repeating the samething, that would put you at a disadvantage? MR. GREENBERG: Mr. Boyce is a bright lawyer andI don't know what's in his mind, but as for me, I believethere's a savings clause in the Texas statutory schemethat upon ruling by this Court, if it were not to upholdthe Fifth Circuit and this case had to be refiled indistrict court, I -- I believe that that savings clausewould pertain except -- except -- that in the record itshows that New York law is to apply to this litigation.And I don't know whether New York substantive law wouldapply or Texas procedural law would apply. My coming here today, of course, was the hope ofan affirmance and not have to face that issue. And -­QUESTION: Under the Fifth Circuit rule, supposethere's no diversity when the suit is filed because theplaintiff resides in the same State as one of thedefendants, and then the plaintiff moves in order tocreate diversity. Doesn't the Fifth Circuit rule permitthat to occur without destroying the jurisdiction of thecourt? MR. GREENBERG: I'll answer -­QUESTION: Then let's say this is done justbefore trial. , Inc. MR. GREENBERG: And the issue then is raisedafter the trial? QUESTION: Yes. MR. GREENBERG: I would respectfully say this,not only do I think the Fifth Circuit rule allows that, Ithink Caterpillar allows that. QUESTION: You think which? MR. GREENBERG: I think Caterpillar -­QUESTION: Caterpillar. MR. GREENBERG: -- the unanimous decision ofthis Court, would allow that same fact situation, but -­QUESTION: It's -- it's really -- it's reallyquite different to say, look it, it's the same party herewho was here at the outset of the trial, this very sameperson, and he's been here all through. All that'shappened is one other person who -- who destroyedjurisdiction has gotten out. It seems to me it's quitesomething different to say we had -- we had one person,you know, originally with -- with a certain citizenship.That's -- that same person is here. It was bad as to -­as to him originally, but now it's changed because he'schanged his citizenship. I'm not sure that that's thesame situation. It seems to me quite different. QUESTION: It seems to me that that situation isjust what Justice Marshall dealt with when he said you, Inc. cannot oust a court of jurisdiction once lodged. So ifthere is authority, then it doesn't matter whether thatplaintiff moves. I mean, the plaintiff who certainlycouldn't move and become non-diverse and hope to escape anadverse judgment -- I thought -- I thought that rule wasfirm, that a single plaintiff, if it's just a two-partylawsuit, jurisdiction is not ousted. And I don't thinkthat Caterpillar in any way suggests that that one partyplaintiff situation would be different. The -- the partnership is sort of in between.It's not like a single individual, but it's not quite likeCaterpillar either where there were wholly discreteparties. MR. GREENBERG: I -- I noted in Caterpillar atpage that the Court cited the McMahan case from theThird Circuit in which there was a change in thepartnership after the filing, but before the trial so asto empower the court with complete diversity and the courthad the judicial power to decide the case. I take it that if this Court in its unanimousopinion referred to the McMahan case, Knop v. McMahan,that it -- it understood that change in that case and didnot dispute the fact, therefore, that the change in alimited partnership is acceptable so that when that changeoccurs and then there is complete diversity and then there , Inc. is a trial, that the court has the Article III judicialpower to decide the case. Or as -- or as Justice Souter said in Lexecon,while not on all fours with this case by any means, therewas no continuing defiance but merely untimely compliance.In this case there was no continuing defiance of thecourt's jurisdiction. Once the limited partners werebought out of the limited partnership, this court acquiredthe power, and once it acquired the power, the lineage ofcases, the thread of cases from -- from Grubbs, Newman-Green, and Caterpillar say this court has the power toconsider that case. QUESTION: Well, Grubbs -- what -- what --Grubbs was a removal case. MR. GREENBERG: Yes, that is true. The only direct filing case -- you are correct, Justice -- Chief Justice Rehnquist. QUESTION: I'm glad to know that. (Laughter.) MR. GREENBERG: Well -- and -- and following onthat, but of course, Newman-Green, a rule case,admittedly is very instructive here because Newman-Green-- the court gave the plaintiff the option of dismissingthe dispensable party. The plaintiff took the option.While the case was on appeal, the appellate court gave the , Inc. option. The plaintiff dismissed the dispensable party andthe court said okay, we had jurisdiction then to render -­the district court had jurisdiction then to render summaryjudgment in that case. The plaintiff could have turned down that powerand said, no, I don't want to lose that dispensable party.He may be the money man. He may be the one that I cancome after later on. So you do have this Court in Newman-Greenapproving, if you will, the act of the plaintiffunilaterally to make the decision whether it's going tostay in Federal court or in that case -- well, stay inFederal court. Here, there are -- there are -- the -- thepetitioner raises two salient issues: removal isdifferent than remand and this was unilateral. I'vecovered the unilateral in my opinion, and I will say onefinal thing about -- subject to questions, about theremoval. And that is once a case comes to this court byremoval or by direct filing, the jurisdictional questionsare the same at that point, and that is, is therediversity? And in Caterpillar, it said, well, therewasn't and the court erroneously ruled, but later ondiversity obtained and we had Article III jurisdictional , Inc. power to try the case. I -- it's like coming to Washington, D.C. bytrain, boat, plane. Once you get to Washington, D.C.,you're subject to the same rules. Once we be -- camebefore the Federal court by direct filing, or onceCaterpillar in the removal filing, the test was the same.We -- we believe this is a very, very narrow case. QUESTION: May I just ask you one generalquestion? In -- in your view is the rule that youadvocate a one-way street in the sense that if there wasjurisdiction when the case was filed, then the next weekthe plaintiff moved to the same State of the defendant,there would nevertheless continue to be jurisdiction all the way down the line? MR. GREENBERG: That -- Justice Stevens, that is correct. QUESTION: So it's -- this -- this rule, if weadopt it, is -- it's -- it's to -- it's always topreserve or to allow a -- a belated creation ofjurisdiction. MR. GREENBERG: Once the court acquires thepower, it doesn't lose it or it is not divested by theactions of the parties. QUESTION: Okay. Then the second question is -­I just want to be percent sure on your view -- is if , Inc. the original defect is discovered before trial, eventhough it had been corrected a day or later, there wouldstill be a duty to dismiss the complaint, dismiss for wantof jurisdiction because there was no jurisdiction at thetime of filing, under your view. MR. GREENBERG: Respectfully, Justice Stevens,it's not my view. It's what I believe Caterpillar saysbecause Caterpillar speaks of a case having been tried.The words are cases tried on -- on -- and I hope it's page -- it -- it -­QUESTION: Well, that would be the end offiling, not -- not before trial. He said -- the -- thequestion is before -- you're -- you're taking the positionbefore trial. Once trial has started -­MR. GREENBERG: I think the court would have todismiss the case. QUESTION: Well, that's not what Caterpillarsays. Having been tried is what -­MR. GREENBERG: It says, having been tried. QUESTION: I -- I take that to mean the trialhaving been completed. QUESTION: Yes. MR. GREENBERG: So do I. So I'm agreeing withyou. I think the court -­QUESTION: As Caterpillar said, that if at the , Inc. time of trial -­MR. GREENBERG: Yes. QUESTION: -- you have no spoiler in thepicture, which was what Caterpillar was. MR. GREENBERG: That's correct. QUESTION: And if there's a sentence that sayssomething different, but the facts in Caterpillar wasbefore the trial began, it was complete diversity. MR. GREENBERG: That's correct. QUESTION: Your answer to Justice Stevens, whenhe put his question, was yes. MR. GREENBERG: Yes. QUESTION: If in fact it's noticed before thetrial is complete, it is necessary to dismiss. And thatyou believe the answer is, one, yes, and you believethat's implicit in Caterpillar because you agree with whatJustice Scalia said. MR. GREENBERG: That is correct. That's verywell put and I thank you very much. (Laughter.) QUESTION: Suppose -- suppose -­MR. GREENBERG: I honestly thought that was myanswer. QUESTION: Who -- who is that man? (Laughter.) , Inc. MR. GREENBERG: I honestly thought that was myanswer. QUESTION: I did too. MR. GREENBERG: But -- but I also -- I also haveto hasten to point out that Justice Ginsburg's opinionsays cured -- you know, if it's cured before trial. In -­in this case, it was cured before trial, but it wasn'traised before trial. It was raised after the trial. Wefall well within the umbrella of Caterpillar. QUESTION: Suppose you had gone to that trialwith the two Mexicans still in the partnership and you hadwon, and then could you then have said to the court, wedon't need those Mexican partners? They're out of here.So now, we'd like to make a motion under rule to dropthose two people from the party lineup. Could you havedone that? MR. GREENBERG: Under rule , if they weredispensable, yes. QUESTION: So you're suggesting that a plaintiffcould play the same game as a defendant could play, say,oh, I'm going to go in -- I'm going to go in and get mytrial, and I'm going to have those two spoilers in thecase, and if I win, fine, I won't open my mouth. If Ilose, out they go and I start over again. MR. GREENBERG: I understand the question, and, Inc. respectfully, Justice Ginsburg, I would say that rule ,Newman-Green, and Caterpillar does allow that. I would say, though, on the other hand, thatthere are other checks on -- on the ethics of -- oflawyers. If they do go in with that type of mental frameof mind, that there are ethical obligations, and you'regoing to face the wrath of the court. The court may havea -- a hearing, for example, to you -- for you to showcause why you should be sanctioned for misrepresentingthings to the court. I'm very concerned about that. QUESTION: If -- if the rule you're proposingkind of invites the sort of conduct that you say isprohibited, maybe there's something wrong with the rule. MR. GREENBERG: I'm not proposing a rule, ChiefJustice -­QUESTION: Well, you're -- you're proposing arule that is derived, you say, from Caterpillar. MR. GREENBERG: I'm proposing that -- that thiscase on its facts falls within the exception inCaterpillar. I'm not advocating any new rule. QUESTION: Well, except that there was not alimited partnership in Caterpillar. MR. GREENBERG: There was not a limitedpartnership in Caterpillar, but diversity was cured beforetrial and the issue was not raised until after trial. , Inc. QUESTION: And I suppose you would argue that ifwe're looking for bright line rules, we shouldn't make itturn on what the nature of a particular jurisdictionaldefect was or they moved to another State or you let onepartner resign or something like that. The bright linerule, it seems to me, has to turn on whether it's equallybright line to say you can make this objection up till thetime of a verdict in the trial court or it's equallybright line to say you can do it up to the time that theappellate court judgment is final. You can't do it after-- we all agree you can't do it on collateral attack. And I don't know why one is any more bright linethan the other, unless you get into these ramificationsthat there's a difference between removal and filing or adifference between the -- the plaintiff moving to anotherState or -- or adding a partner. Those are all -- itseems to me any one of those would depart from the needfor a bright line rule. MR. GREENBERG: Respectfully, Justice Stevens, Ido agree with that. I think the rule -- the time offiling rule is -- is a general rule and it has beensubject to exception. We fall -- we -- this case falls within the Caterpillar, Newman-Green, Grubbs exception. Yes, there are distinctions in the factual issues, but those distinctions are without a difference as far as what, Inc. we would ask this Court to do. QUESTION: Well, they're pretty big distinctionsbecause in the other cases, they were just extra partiesthat could be dropped out. Here the whole partnership -­the nature of the partnership had to change. There was -­the -- the initial premise for the jurisdiction was wrongbased on the identity and the composition of thepartnership, not the identity and the composition of allof the parties that are in the complaint. Now, that maybe metaphysical, but it -- it does seem to me to open moreroom for manipulation than existed just with Caterpillaron the books. MR. GREENBERG: Respectfully, Justice Kennedy, Iwill answer your question. I -- I do not think it opensthe door to more manipulation. Two reasons. Number one, in Texas the general partner has theright to bring lawsuits. The limited partners do not havethe right to sue or be sued in their name on behalf of thelimited partnership. That's a very important distinctionhere. The -- the second point -- and I think this ismore important -- the precedent of this Court does notdiscuss intent. Caterpillar, Newman-Green, Grubbs did nottalk about what were the parties' intent at the time thatthe jurisdictional Article III power came to this court. , Inc. Since there is no discussion in those cases of intent, itis my reading that intent is not an issue. It's anabsolute. Did the court have jurisdiction or does it not? And I think there are checks and balances onlawyers who would manipulate, as you say, Justice Kennedy. QUESTION: Can I get back to -- to bright linerules? It seems to me it is a bright line rule, that youcan preserve jurisdiction by dismissing a party. That'svery bright line. I don't think it's very bright line to say, youknow, whenever there was a jurisdictional defect whichlater is cured -- in any way whatever? I mean, this caseinvolves an alteration in the citizenship of the partnership. What about an alteration of the citizenship of the corporation? They reincorporate somewhere else before the thing happens? What about a -- a private individual who decides to move to another State? Is thatcovered? Is this bright line when -- when we still haveall of these -- all of these future cases in front of us?It seems to me it is not. MR. GREENBERG: Respectfully, Justice Scalia, inCaterpillar at page , there are overridingconsiderations to those analogies, which of course are notthe facts here. There's no showing of intent here.There's -- there's -- the only showing is neither party , Inc. adverted to the issue. This case was tried. But -­QUESTION: There's a difference between theabsence of jurisdiction at the outset, which is what isinvolved when you have a plaintiff from the same State asthe defendant which can't be cured by the plaintiff movingto a diverse State, and imperfect jurisdiction, in otherwords, that you do have diversity, but you have a spoilerin the picture. That is -- that is very clear inCaterpillar, less clear in the partnership. Although thepartners are five individuals, they are not an entity theway a corporation is. MR. GREENBERG: That's correct. In this -- inthis partnership, there were, I think, two corporations. QUESTION: Wasn't the partnership sued as anentity? I thought that it was sued as a partnership. MR. GREENBERG: It was a sued as a partnership.That is correct. QUESTION: As a partnership. And so -­MR. GREENBERG: Yes, and two individuals. QUESTION: So there was no jurisdictioninitially over the partnership. MR. GREENBERG: That's correct. QUESTION: It wasn't -- it was sued. It -- itsued. It was the plaintiff, wasn't it? The -­MR. GREENBERG: Atlas sued -­ , Inc. QUESTION: Yes. MR. GREENBERG: -- and was counterclaimedagainst by Dataflux as an entity, and then Dataflux third-partied in the two Mexican individuals. QUESTION: But at -- at the outset, contrary tothe earlier statement, it was not a matter of imperfectjurisdiction. There was no jurisdiction over Atlas.Period. The -- of the partnership. MR. GREENBERG: According to Carden v. Arkoma, Justice Scalia, the way I read it, the jurisdiction did not obtain at the time of filing. That was only curedlater, but the overriding consideration in Caterpillarunanimously by this Court is once a diversity case hasbeen tried in Federal court, with the rules of decisionsunder State law, under Erie v. Tompkins, considerations offinality, efficiency, and economy become overwhelming. IfI have to take those words as they are, they areoverwhelming, then it is overwhelming in this case becausethis case is narrower than Caterpillar. Why send thiscase back? I would ask this Court -- these principles applyregardless of whether the case arrives to Federal courtthrough removal or original filing. I would ask thisCourt, on behalf of the respondent, that this Court applythese principles to conclude that the trial court in this, Inc. case had subject matter jurisdiction at the time of trial,and allow this case to return the district court for entryof judgment consistent with the jury verdict. QUESTION: Thank -­MR. GREENBERG: If there are no more questions,I give back the Court my -- the balance of my time. QUESTION: Thank you, Mr. Greenberg. Mr. Boyce, you have minutes remaining. REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF WILLIAM J. BOYCE ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONER MR. BOYCE: Thank you, Mr. Chief Justice. I would like to elaborate on an answer toJustice Breyer's question, which has been touched on by anumber of the questions here, which is what's the worstthat can happen. And I -- I think the point would bethis. Once the efficacy of a post-filing change incitizenship is -- is taken as a given, then I think you're-- you're setting up a situation where the door swingsboth ways. Jurisdiction can be created and jurisdictioncan be destroyed by virtue of post-filing changes. QUESTION: Well, he says it's the opposite. I mean, you -- you could do that, but I mean, it's veryclear to say it could destroy it; no. It could create it;yes. I mean, that's not hard to understand, and there's alot of authority. , Inc. MR. BOYCE: The -- the rule -- if -- if the lineis drawn there, then I -- I think that raises implicationsof manipulation. You can move and create it and then moveback and not destroy it. If -- if the concern is creatingincentives -­QUESTION: Only if the court says -- only if thecourt says so because the rule, even the timely filingrule was -- was something that John Marshall said and it'sbeen that way ever since, with exceptions and recognizingthat a human individual is different from a corporation isdifferent from a partnership. If -- if a court is goingto make such a regime, surely it would make a sensible oneand not one that's subject to abuse. MR. BOYCE: If -- there -- there may be -- the-- the court will do what it will do. The -- the questionis, is there an -- a creation of additional opportunitiesfor manipulation or confusion, and we -­QUESTION: What are they? You were going tosay. What are they? MR. BOYCE: And -- and I submit that if thebright line rule is no longer bright, if it -- if it turnson the fact of how far into the trial court proceedingsbefore this came up, then it's -- the -- the time when youneed certainty most, in terms of being able to decidewhether or not you have jurisdiction, that's when there's, Inc. going to be the least amount of clarity. And that's thereal -- the real problem that's -- that's created here. And -- and Justice Stevens had -- had asked the-- the question saying, well, why don't we just draw the-- the line? You want a bright line rule? We'll -- we'lldraw it at the time of trial. I think the problem here isthat what you're setting up is a circumstance where forsome period of time, a trial court, a Federal districtcourt is acting ultra vires, to borrow the phrase fromSteel Company, for some period of time prior to wheneveryou say the -- the post-filing change could becomeeffective. You've got a Federal trial court that isoperating without authority. It's issuing orders. QUESTION: No. You assume the jurisdictionaldefect has been cured. MR. BOYCE: But prior to the time of that curingof that defect, you have a circumstance as you had herefor years, for example, where you've got a Federaldistrict court issuing summary -­QUESTION: And as you had in Caterpillar. MR. BOYCE: And -- and I guess the point I would make is -- is this. If Caterpillar opened the door to a component of retroactive jurisdiction, it did not openthat door very wide. And -- and the -- the choice isshould that -- should that door be opened wider and what , Inc. are the problems that result from that. And our positionwould be that the confusion and uncertainty andopportunities for manipulation that are going to resultfrom opening that door wider make it appropriate to leavethe line drawn where -­QUESTION: Can you imagine a plaintiff's lawyerdeliberately filing a Federal lawsuit where he knowsthere's no Federal jurisdiction? Why would he ever dothat? MR. BOYCE: That may not be a -- a circumstancethat -- that is likely to happen, but -­QUESTION: But you're talking about deliberatemanipulation, and I just don't understand why a competent lawyer would ever do that. MR. BOYCE: I -- I think the -- the greater issue is -- is one of uncertainty and of having acircumstance like this case or going back as early as -­as the Capron case where the case gets filed and getstried and then the issue comes up. I do want to make one note about the referenceto the Knop case. CHIEF JUSTICE REHNQUIST: Thank you, Mr. Boyce. The case is submitted. (Whereupon, at : a.m., the case in theabove-entitled matter was submitted.) , Inc. 