 IN THE SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -XHERNAN O'RYAN CASTRO, Petitioner ::v. : No. -UNITED STATES. :- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -XWashington, D.C.Wednesday, October , The above-entitled matter came on for oralargument before the Supreme Court of the United States at: a.m.APPEARANCES:MICHAEL G. FRICK, ESQ., Brunswick, Georgia; on behalf of the Petitioner.DAN HIMMELFARB, ESQ., Assistant to the Solicitor General,Department of Justice, Washington, D.C.; on behalfthe Respondent. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC ALDERSON REPORTING COMPANY C O N T E N T SORAL ARGUMENT OF MICHAEL G. FRICK, ESQ.On behalf of the Petitioner DAN HIMMELFARB, ESQ.On behalf of the Respondent PAGE th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC ALDERSON REPORTING COMPANY P R O C E E D I N G S(: a.m.)CHIEF JUSTICE REHNQUIST: We'll hear argumentnext in No. -, Hernan O'Ryan Castro v. the UnitedStates. Mr. Frick.ORAL ARGUMENT OF MICHAEL G. FRICKON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONERMR. FRICK: Mr. Chief Justice, and may it pleasethe Court:In holding that Hernan O'Ryan Castro's firsttitled U.S.C., section petition was second orsuccessive under the Antiterrorism and Effective DeathPenalty Act of , the Eleventh Circuit Court of Appeals has placed itself in conflict with every other court ofappeals circuit in the United States, save the Fifth, inhow they view or treat the impact of a prior post-conviction motion which has been sua sponte re-characterized or treated as a petition by thedistrict court. QUESTION: Is recharacterization pretty much ofa judge-made thing? There's -- there's no statute thatprovides for it, is there?MR. FRICK: That is absolutely correct. It is ajudge-made -- it is a judge-made thing. It is something th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC ALDERSON REPORTING COMPANY that has been -- that has grown up among the courts in anattempt to save what would otherwise be generally in thecase of a pro se prisoner, a facially deficient or anineptly pleaded document, and by recharacterizing it, it'strying to take substance and putting into form so that thecourt can actually rule on the substance of the particularmotion that was pleaded.QUESTION: Well, what's the difference in thetwo? I'm -- I'm the trial judge and I receive a motionunder rule that's within the time limits under rule .MR. FRICK: Yes, Your Honor. QUESTION: When do I recharacterize it?MR. FRICK: Justice Kennedy, at the present timerecharacterization in our opinion should only be done at such time as the court determines that there is absolutelyno viable way that it's going to be able to take thedocument as pleaded under the title that it's given to thecourt and effectuate a remedy therefrom. Now, it is our contention that, as in the Adamsand Miller cases from the Second and Third Circuits, thatat the present time, under the restrictions of the AEDPA,that a recharacterization should never take place by acourt unless there is concurrence on the part of thepetitioner himself and he's given the --QUESTION: Well, I -- I understand that -- that th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC ALDERSON REPORTING COMPANY argument of yours.MR. FRICK: Yes, sir.QUESTION: But what I'm asking is what is --what factors does the judge take into account or shouldtake into account when he or she is asked torecharacterize the motion? I -- I get -- I'm the trialjudge. I get a rule motion, which is within the timelimits, and then the Government or -- says, now you shouldrecharacterize. What -- what are factors that I considerwhen I recharacterize? You -- you indicate that youshould never recharacterize unless you have to for somereason?MR. FRICK: Yes, sir, and I do not believe thatit is the Government's part to ask the court to recharacterize something. QUESTION: Is there any authority for that? If-- if I wanted to go look in -- in some manual or --MR. FRICK: No, Your Honor. There --QUESTION: -- some practice book to know when Ican recharacterize, when I can't?MR. FRICK: No, Your Honor, but the D.C. Circuit-- but first of all, all of the cases that we have citedexcept for the Eleventh Circuit and the Fifth Circuit haveaddressed issues, have addressed circumstances under whichrecharacterization was done of certain motions that were th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC ALDERSON REPORTING COMPANY pleaded in order to help ostensibly the individual whopled the motion.QUESTION: But here the Government and the trialcourt the first time around just said they would have noobjection, didn't they, having treated it as a ? Theydidn't urge that it be recharacterized, the rule motion.MR. FRICK: No, they did not ask that it berecharacterized, Your Honor. What they said is that theyhad no objection to it being considered as also seekingrelief under . But my client, Mr. Castro, hadpresented to the court, unlike in virtually all of theother cases in the other circuits -- and this is one ofthe points that makes this such a strong case for Mr. Castro -- his rule motion was absolutely correct in allrespects insofar as seeking the remedy that he did.The Eleventh Circuit's initial opinion in thiscase, in fact, recognized the opinion that it latervacated sua sponte -- actually recognized the fact that hehad brought a proper rule motion under -- under Brady.QUESTION: And when you say a proper rule motion, you don't necessarily mean one on which reliefwill be granted I take it.MR. FRICK: No, Your Honor. It is, nonetheless,a motion that does not require recharacterization in order th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC ALDERSON REPORTING COMPANY for the court to get to the merits of the issue presented.The district court --QUESTION: It was the Government who intruded into this case. The district judge didn't suggestit. The prisoner, who never appeared before the court,certainly didn't suggest it. , as I understand, wasfirst uttered by the Government in -- in its pleading tothe court.MR. FRICK: That's absolutely correct, JusticeGinsburg, and the court -- the district court's order,interestingly enough, starts out by saying we have beforeus Hernan O'Ryan Castro's motion for a new trial underrule , and then it ends in conclusion by stating for theabove reasons, we deny Hernan O'Ryan Castro's rule motion for new trial. It is only in the body of theopinion itself that there is reference to the Governmenthaving requested that it also be considered as requestingrelief under and that they would, therefore, takethat consideration. QUESTION: Well, let's get exactly straight whatthe Government said because I had thought the Governmentsaid it have -- it would have no objection. Now, you'resaying the Government requested. Those are two differentthings.MR. FRICK: Your Honor, if I stated that, I'm th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC ALDERSON REPORTING COMPANY incorrect. The Government suggested -- the Governmentstated that it had no objection, as Your -- as Your Honorhas stated. It had no objection to it being socharacterized. QUESTION: But no one had proposed it other thanthe Government. MR. FRICK: That's correct. Not up until thatpoint in time, there had been no suggestion whatsoever of --QUESTION: And the Government was -- I take it,was intending to be helpful. They thought that was abetter rubric. Why I don't know. It isn't clear evennow. The -- the district judge in the end I -- didn't hesay I'll treat it as both?MR. FRICK: Yes, Your Honor. He -- he said thathe would treat it as seeking relief under both rule and. Mr. Castro, in his brief in response to theGovernment's brief, stated that I didn't file a -- a and I object to it being characterized or considered asseeking relief under . But there was no argument onthe point, and it was never anything that -- whereargument was presented other than through the briefs onthat issue.QUESTION: And what -- at what point did Mr.Castro get representation? Not at this stage he didn't th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC ALDERSON REPORTING COMPANY have any lawyer.MR. FRICK: Absolutely not, Your Honor. We --we were not appointed by the court until this matter hadgone before the Eleventh Circuit Court of Appeals whovacated the opinion of the district court and remanded itbecause the -- now we're talking about the subsequentlyfiled . The -- the first titled that was filedseveral years later. It was not until that was on appealthat the Eleventh Circuit appointed counsel -- had thedistrict court appoint counsel.QUESTION: So throughout the original rule --MR. FRICK: Totally pro se.QUESTION: And even when he -- his first styled, he was still pro se until that one went up on appeal.correct. MR. FRICK: Yes, Justice Ginsburg, that'sQUESTION: And pro se, Castro filed an appealfrom the merits determination of the district court? MR. FRICK: Yes, Justice O'Connor, that'scorrect. QUESTION: But didn't raise, as an issue, thetreatment of his -- the recharacterization --MR. FRICK: That is correct.QUESTION: -- to also consider -- th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC ALDERSON REPORTING COMPANY MR. FRICK: That was not raised -- that was notraised as an issue by him at that point in time.QUESTION: And what are we to make of that?MR. FRICK: Your Honor, I would suggest that wemake nothing of it. The Government has suggested thatthis places this case under one of three things. It's lawof the case, or if the Court doesn't buy law of the case,then look at either waiver or forfeiture to the extentthat there may be some difference between those twoparticular things. QUESTION: At the time Mr. Castro appealed, hadAEDPA been enacted?MR. FRICK: At the time that he appealed?QUESTION: Mm-hum. We can find it out.MR. FRICK: I -- I'm sorry, Your Honor. QUESTION: But --MR. FRICK: We -- we have two or three differentappeals.QUESTION: I thought, frankly, that he hadappealed in March of and AEDPA was enacted in April.MR. FRICK: Yes, Your Honor. At page of thejoint appendix there's a March th, Eleventh Circuitaffirmance of the district court denial of the rule motion for new trial, and in that order the court statesthat this is an appeal from the denial of relief in regard th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC ALDERSON REPORTING COMPANY to a combined motion to vacate, set aside, or correctsentence, , and motion for new trial. Of course, it is our contention that thatstatement is not actually accurate because there had neverbeen a motion filed by anyone seeking relief under . It had simply been a characterization. QUESTION: Now, that -- that would mean thatwhen the district court decided to treat this as beingunder either or both of those provisions, it was doing himno harm, AEDPA not yet being in existence. Is that right?MR. FRICK: I believe that that was the -- yes,Your Honor. I believe that is -- that is correct from thestandpoint --QUESTION: It's only the subsequent enactment of AEDPA that caused the recharacterization to be harmful tohim.MR. FRICK: Yes, Your Honor, and not only that,but not only was this a pre-AEDPA filing of the rule plus recharacterization at that time, it was a denial ofthe -- that relief, that joint relief, pre-AEDPA.QUESTION: What do you make of the argument onthe other side that although, of course, there was noAEDPA at that point, we did have a -- a structure of -- ofrules governing abuse of the writ and second andsuccessive petitions and that he would have -- he would th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC ALDERSON REPORTING COMPANY have run afoul of those rules, or at least there wasreason to be concerned that he might run afoul of thoserules, and therefore, the enactment of AEDPA reallyshouldn't make any difference in our analysis?MR. FRICK: Well, Your Honor, I -- theGovernment's brief seems to pretty much equate abuse ofthe writ with the restrictions placed under .QUESTION: And I'll -- I'll stipulate here thatthey're -- you know, they're not exactly identical. Butthe argument is your concern basically here with theunfairness of tagging him with an earlier petition, andit's unfair because of the -- the consequences underAEDPA. And they're saying it would have been just asunfair or just as fair in the pre-AEDPA law. It's afairness argument. What do -- what do you say to that?MR. FRICK: Yes, sir. I -- I believe that theother circuits of this country, courts of appeals, haveaddressed the difference between the abuse of the writ andthe impact of having filed an initial under AEDPA andhaving that.QUESTION: Right. What -- what do you say? What do you say? What's your answer to the Government? MR. FRICK: I say that there is a significantdifference as stated by those other circuits between thedifficulty in getting a second petition filed under abuse th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC ALDERSON REPORTING COMPANY of the writ. It -- it wasn't as difficult to get a secondpetition filed.QUESTION: Is -- is the -- is the basicdifference that you have to go to the court of appeals andthat's a tough standard, whereas under our prior law, you-- you didn't have to go through that step?MR. FRICK: That would certainly be one of thedifferences, Your Honor. But the recharacterizationitself in Mr. Castro's case was not to his benefit. There-- there's no contention that the Government did it tolegally entrap him, but that's the circumstance that heultimately found himself in, having had the courtrecharacterize it, so to speak. QUESTION: Well, but isn't -- isn't there another point that filing a legitimate -- maybe -- on themerits motion for new trial on ground A and later -- and-- and having it denied, then later filing a onground B under our abuse of the writ doctrine -- thatwould not have been an abuse of the writ, would it?MR. FRICK: That's correct, Justice Stevens. It's also important, I believe, to -- to consider thatwhile Mr. Castro was -- while Mr. Castro was pro se,that's not -- that's not a critical element in connectionwith this case. These same pitfalls would have befallenattorneys representing him with a recharacterization th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC ALDERSON REPORTING COMPANY problem as -- as it was done at that time, although I'mnot so sure that the Government would have suggested thatit would not object to it being recharacterized as a if there had been counsel on the other side at that time.QUESTION: But as far as raising a question onappeal, it's more likely, if he had counsel, that the prose prisoner gets to see a document that starts out bysaying you made a rule motion, and the bottom line is,as you pointed out, your motion is denied, and that comes up only in the body of the opinion. That issomething that a lawyer is far more likely to spot than apro se prisoner who sees I made a motion under rule ,and the bottom line of this judgment is my motion isdenied.MR. FRICK: Yes, Your Honor. That's correct. QUESTION: Would he have been able to appeal thetrial court's treatment of it as -- as under the habeasprovision? Would he have been able to appeal? I mean,the Government says it's law of the case because he shouldhave appealed it. He -- he was the --MR. FRICK: Your Honor, I don't know what pointhe would have appealed. The -- the district court'sconsideration of the motion throughout the entire motionused the analysis of -- of Brady and Giglio in reachingthe point that his motion for new trial should be denied. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC ALDERSON REPORTING COMPANY There was one brief remark about and theconstitutional application in it, but it was not, ineffect, necessary to the decision that the court rendered. And therefore, I do not believe that law of the caseapplied.QUESTION: Well, even -- even if it wasn'tnecessary, he would have had to go to appeal saying Iagree with the judgment below. I should have been deniedrelief. But I want you to write an opinion saying that itwas wrong for the court to treat this -- I mean, thenormal appellate judge would say, look it, you know, youhave nothing to complain about if you agree that youshould have been denied relief under the other one.MR. FRICK: Yes, Your Honor. Your Honor, the -- the question presented beforethis Court is not quite as narrow in our view as lookingspecifically at the facts of this case, with it being apre-AEDPA when most of the other circuit cases are post-AEDPA, both in the recharacterization phase and in thefiling of a first titled . The question that we wereasked pertaining to this Court dealt with when a firstpost-conviction motion is recharacterized sua sponte as a, is a subsequent first titled rendered second orsuccessive under the AEDPA. The -- the answer to that isno in our opinion. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC ALDERSON REPORTING COMPANY But the significance and the point I wanted tomake there is that the Government's contention that we'vegot a law of the case issue -- law of the case is very --I'm not sure exactly what the law of the case is going toultimately result in other than the determination thatthere had been a recharacterization sua sponte as a . And under that circumstance that's what we're here arguingabout.QUESTION: One thing you might touch on, Mr.Frick, during the course, the Government contends we don'thave jurisdiction over this petition. Perhaps you mightwant to discuss that --MR. FRICK: Yes.QUESTION: -- at some point. MR. FRICK: Thank you, Chief Justice Rehnquist.Under Stillert -- excuse me -- Stewart v.Martinez-Villareal and Slack v. McDaniel, this Court hasalready made the determination that it has jurisdiction toconsider and review a circuit court of appeals' decisionpertaining to whether or not a first titled is secondor successive following recharacterization. Both of thosecases dealt with that issue. They were different factsituations, but the bottom line was this Court tookjurisdiction under those cases to consider the issue ofsuccessive or second petition under AEDPA. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC ALDERSON REPORTING COMPANY In addition, a -- an actual look at the statute, U.S.C. (b)()(E), which is in the appendix of theGovernment's brief, appendix a, that is the statute thatthe Government contends shows that this Court does nothave jurisdiction. What that particular section dealswith is a proscription against this Court havingjurisdiction when a court of appeals has granted or denieda request for authorization for a district court toconsider a second or successive petition. That is arecognition on the part -- the statute recognizes thatthere has been a first so characterized as such, sopleaded as such by the petitioner, and that he has thencome before them with what he recognizes is a secondmotion, and he's going to the court of appeals and saying, under AEDPA there are restrictions that we have not hadbefore, and I am required to come before you and meetcertain gatekeeping requirements in order for the districtcourt to hear my second or successive petition. There isno first for a second -- for -- for the first titled to be successive to or to be second to. Andtherefore, section (b)()(E) is not applicable.Now, the Government's argument in that regard isthat because the Eleventh Circuit looked at the appeal andsaid, you don't meet the gatekeeping requirements, thatthat determination that it did not meet the gatekeeping th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC ALDERSON REPORTING COMPANY requirements was a further sua sponte determination andrecharacterization of his appeal into a request forcertificate of authorization, and that therefore, underthat scenario, (b)()(E) should serve as a bar tojurisdiction. We strongly suggest, Your Honors, that thatis not the case.The AEDPA and the -- changed jurisdiction. It-- it limited this Court's jurisdiction to review veryimportant habeas corpus -- habeas petitions, and in so, itshould be strictly construed. The Government would have afurther sua sponte recharacterization in this chain andprevent this Court from having jurisdiction to even hearthe matter.QUESTION: As I understand your position, though, you don't even have to read strict construction. You -- I think it's your view, isn't it, that subsection(E) just doesn't speak to the question whether we havejurisdiction over a decision by a court of appeals as towhether or not a particular petition is second orsuccessive? MR. FRICK: That is correct, Your Honor. I wassimply addressing the Government's position in trying tocraft a -- a way under (b)()(E) to prevent this Courtfrom having jurisdiction of the matter.QUESTION: Mr. Frick, the other -- some of the th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC ALDERSON REPORTING COMPANY other courts of appeals have given the district courtinstructions about how they should deal with cases ofrecharacterization. MR. FRICK: That's correct, Your Honor. QUESTION: Those tests are not identical. Ofthe array of instructions to district judges to deal withthis situation, which do you think is the soundestapproach?MR. FRICK: Your Honor, I believe that the --the Second Circuit Adams case sets forth probably the bestbright line test, that being that the petitioner -- that-- that when a court has a petition that it thinks wouldbetter be served as recharacterized, that they shouldinform the petitioner first that they believe it should be recharacterized in order for them to grant relief, that itshould be recharacterized as a , obtain the consent ofthe petitioner, and if they don't obtain the consent ofthe petitioner, then offer the petitioner the opportunityto withdraw the petition and file it at a later point intime, assuming that it can be refiled at some point intime, and not be -- not run into problems with the statuteof limitations, or at least tell the petitioner that it isgoing to consider this recharacterized and they've got days, days to add any other constitutional claims thatwould appropriately be brought under a before they th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC ALDERSON REPORTING COMPANY will rule on it so that --QUESTION: Is recharacterization done only withpro se litigants? If I were an attorney, I'm not sure I'dbe terribly happy to have a lawyer -- to have the judgesay, well, this is the wrong kind of writ, I'm going totreat it thus.MR. FRICK: Chief Justice Rehnquist, there arecircumstances I understand, not from personal knowledge,where recharacterization does take place in spite of thefact that there is an attorney. But the actual processand -- and the recharacterizations that have taken placeover the years have been for the benefit of a pro seprisoner.Your Honor, I know --QUESTION: But -- but you -- you want us tosimply adopt a rule for what happens, what warnings haveto be given, what requirements have to be met, whenthere's recharacterization. You're not asking us to gofurther and say when recharacterization is appropriate. MR. FRICK: I think when recharacterization isappropriate, it's appropriate. QUESTION: You're not asking us to address the-- the --MR. FRICK: Yes, Your Honor. I think that --that the issue of recharacterization should continue to th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC ALDERSON REPORTING COMPANY come up. It should continue to benefit pro se prisonersin particular and prisoners in general, but it should onlybe done under circumstances where the particular petitionthat has been filed is inadequate or ineptly pleaded andcannot be considered, under which circumstance it shouldjust then be dismissed, as the Palmer case in the D.C.Circuit has suggested. Let the petitioner be the masterof his own motion or petition.If there are no further questions, I'd like toreserve the remainder of my time for rebuttal.QUESTION: Very well, Mr. Frick.Mr. Himmelfarb, we'll hear from you.ORAL ARGUMENT OF DAN HIMMELFARBON BEHALF OF THE RESPONDENTMR. HIMMELFARB: Mr. Chief Justice, and may itplease the Court:This Court lacks jurisdiction to review thecourt of appeals' decision because the court of appealsdenied authorization to file a second or successive motion.QUESTION: But that's only if you know that it'sa second or a successive petition.MR. HIMMELFARB: Justice Stevens, theinterpretive question we think that's presented, as far asthe jurisdictional issue goes, is whether a denial of th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC ALDERSON REPORTING COMPANY authorization is simply a finding that the gatekeepingrequirements have not been satisfied or rather whether itencompasses both that determination and the subsidiarydetermination that the motion is in fact second orsuccessive. It's our position that it is a single orderencompassing both.QUESTION: Is -- is it your view that the Courtwould never have jurisdiction to review a determination bya court of appeals that a petition was or was not a secondor successive?MR. HIMMELFARB: No. There -- there are twocircumstances when it can. One is the Martinez-Villarealsituation, and there this Court had jurisdiction becausethe court of appeals found that the motion was not second or successive and so didn't grant or deny authorization. So it didn't fall within (b)()(E).The second situation will be one where the courtof appeals finds that the motion is second or successiveand doesn't go on to reach --QUESTION: So our jurisdiction depends on howthe court of appeals resolved the issue.MR. HIMMELFARB: That's right. It depends upon,as the statute makes clear, whether there was a grant ordenial of authorization. QUESTION: I don't understand your second th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC ALDERSON REPORTING COMPANY instance.MR. HIMMELFARB: The second instance -- let meback up to try to answer that as clearly as I can.The ordinary case where a court of appeals isable to address the question whether the district courtproperly found that a motion was second or successive is acase where a motion for authorization to file the motionis filed in a court of appeals. That's because in manycircuits, once a district court finds that a motion issecond or successive, it's obligated to transfer the caseto the court of appeals so it can make the gatekeepingdetermination. And even in cases where a district courtis permitted to dismiss and does rather than transfer, andonce it's found that the motion is second or successive, it's going to be a rare case where the defendant is ableto take an appeal from the dismissal because under thisCourt's decision in Slack v. McDaniel, he'll only be ableto get a certificate of appealability if he makes twoshowings: first, that the procedural ruling that it wassecond or successive is subject to debate among reasonablejurists; and in addition to that, that there was someunderlying constitutional claim that has arguable merit.So in a rare circumstance, when an appeal can betaken on the issue of whether the motion is second orsuccessive, and in the rare circumstance where the court th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC ALDERSON REPORTING COMPANY of appeals, after affirming that finding, does not go onto reach the gatekeeping issue, as courts of appeals oftendo just to bring the case to a close, that will be therare case where there has been a court of appeals' findingthat the motion is second or successive, but yet no grantor denial such that (b)()(E) does not deprive thisCourt of jurisdiction. That is not this case.QUESTION: So in any case, your view is nomatter how absurd, if a -- the court of appeals says a(b) motion is second or successive, if they say acomplaint in a action is a second or successivehabeas petition, no matter how absurd, once the court ofappeals says this is a second or successive application, nobody has any right to appeal here, even though thatisn't what the statute says.MR. HIMMELFARB: So long as there is a grant ordenial of authorization, the court of appeals' decisioncannot be second-guessed.QUESTION: Now, why would we -- why would weinterpret a statute that doesn't say that to -- what itsays is, it says that they shall not file a second orsuccessive application, in other words, if it is a secondor successive application. It doesn't say if it isn't. It doesn't tell us what to do if it isn't. So why would th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC ALDERSON REPORTING COMPANY we adopt this interpretation that you say where thestatute doesn't say it, which would perhaps deprive peopleof all kinds of right to petition the Supreme Court incases where they might be right?MR. HIMMELFARB: The interpretive question iswhether a denial of authorization under (b)()(E) issimply a finding that the gatekeeping requirements haven'tbeen satisfied or whether it's both that and thesubsidiary finding that the motion is second orsuccessive. Nobody would take the position I think thatif the court of appeals finds the gatekeeping requirementsnot satisfied and therefore denies authorization, and yetmanifestly errs in so finding, this Court would,nevertheless, have jurisdiction to review it. There's nomanifest error exception to (b)()(E).QUESTION: Well, but that's -- you -- you callit a subsidiary question, whether or not it's second orsuccessive. You want to reach the gatekeeping questionfirst. That's not the way the statute reads.MR. HIMMELFARB: Well, we think it is.QUESTION: And why isn't it -- why isn't it apredicate? You read the statute. So it says the denialor grant of an authorization by the court of appeals tofile what the court of appeals finds is a second orsuccessive petition, but that's not what the statute says. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC ALDERSON REPORTING COMPANY MR. HIMMELFARB: We think the statute does saythat, Justice Kennedy, for two reasons. The first is that(b)()(E) speaks at -- speaks of a denial ofauthorization. If Congress had intended that to mean onlya finding that the gatekeeping requirements had -- had notbeen satisfied, it could have used narrower language, asindeed it did in (b)()(C) which refers specificallyto the gatekeeping requirements. We think that's thefirst textual indication that our position is correct.The second textual indication is that in(b)()(A) and (b)()(B), Congress speaks of an orderauthorizing the district court to consider theapplication. We think it's reasonable to view an ordergranting or denying an authorization to be synonymous with (b)()(E)'s reference to a grant or denial ofauthorization. QUESTION: Well, at the very least, if thestatute is ambiguous, it seems to me you have to answerJustice Breyer's concern that an erroneous determinationhere can foreclose the petitioner from exercising somevery important rights.MR. HIMMELFARB: Our view is that the statute isnot ambiguous. After applying all the relevant tools ofstatutory construction, the best reading of it is thatCongress intended to include the subsidiary determination th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC ALDERSON REPORTING COMPANY when it said that this Court may not review a denial ofauthorization. QUESTION: Sometimes there might be aconstitutional question. I mean, where for example anopinion appealed to this Court might be required as amatter of due process and what the lower court does, thecourt of appeals -- it -- it erroneously characterizesthat effort to come to the -- that effort to appeal, whichthe Constitution would protect. It erroneouslycharacterizes it as a second or successive petition, andin your view Congress would have just said, even howevererroneous it is, it can't come here. What do we do aboutthe constitutional requirement? MR. HIMMELFARB: Well, Justice Breyer, you could imagine a case where there is a very seriousconstitutional claim raised, but there's absolutely nodispute that it's being raised in a second or successivemotion, and the defendant can't satisfy at the substantivegatekeeping requirements. The court of appeals says it'ssecond or successive. You don't satisfy the gatekeepingrequirements. We deny authorization. I don't thinkanyone would take the view that under (b)()(E) thatdefendant would, nevertheless, be able to seek certiorarifrom this Court. So the whole point of (b)()(E) isto give the court of appeals the final say. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC ALDERSON REPORTING COMPANY QUESTION: And one final thing. You realize thelanguage, of course, says that you cannot ask for certfrom the denial of an authorization by a court of appealsto file a second or successive application. And youropponents are saying we're not appealing the denial of therequest to file a second or successive application. Weare appealing the determination that this is a second orsuccessive application, a matter that the statute issilent about.MR. HIMMELFARB: What my opponent is appealingis the court of appeals' decision, which is a singleorder, which does two things. It affirms the districtcourt's finding that the motion was second or successive,and then goes on repeatedly to say that under AEDPA's gatekeeping requirements, he may not file it. The courtof appeals denied authorization to file the motion under(b)()(E). This Court lacks jurisdiction. QUESTION: But what do you say to his point thathe didn't even try to file a -- try to seek anauthorization to file a second or successive because henever thought it was a second or successive? He did notseek authorization to file such a motion.MR. HIMMELFARB: That's true, Justice Stevens. QUESTION: So how can you have denied such anauthorization? th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC ALDERSON REPORTING COMPANY MR. HIMMELFARB: Well, it's -- as -- as I'vesaid, the ordinary way that a defendant is able tochallenge a district court's determination that his motionis second or successive in the court of appeals is not viaappeal because ordinarily either the case has beentransferred or he can't get a certificate ofappealability. So he does it in the context of anauthorization motion. And in that case, the court ofappeals may find --QUESTION: But, of course, he didn't file anauthorization motion in this case.MR. HIMMELFARB: That's true. That brings me tomy second point. In many cases within the category of therare case where a defendant is able to take an appeal from a dismissal of a motion as second or successive, after thecourt of appeals affirms the finding that the motion issecond or successive, it will often go on to treat theappeal as an implied request for authorization to file themotion because otherwise you've got a lingering questionof whether this motion found to be second or successivecan or cannot be filed, and it will reach that questionjust to bring the matter to a close.It's our position, of course, that if the Courtdoes have jurisdiction, the court of appeals' decisionshould be affirmed. The district court treated th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC ALDERSON REPORTING COMPANY petitioner's first post-conviction motion as one thatsought relief under two different provisions of Federallaw, rule --QUESTION: Why didn't the U.S. attorney whosaid, Your Honor, I don't object -- this is a rule motion, but introduced . Why didn't the assistantU.S. attorney advise the pro se litigant of theconsequences of that recharacterization? If the U.S.attorney is going to take a pleading that a prisoner putsin and says this is my rule motion and for whateverbenign purpose, the assistant U.S. attorney thinks itwould be in the interest of justice to treat it as a ,didn't someone have an obligation to alert the prisoner ofthe consequences of that?MR. HIMMELFARB: Justice Ginsburg, we do notdefend what was done in the district court in connectionwith the first post -- post-conviction motion. We do nottake the position --QUESTION: Well, wasn't that all -- didn't thatoccur before AEDPA had been passed?MR. HIMMELFARB: Yes, it did, Justice O'Connor. QUESTION: Were there the same consequences thenas there were post-AEDPA?MR. HIMMELFARB: In -- in some respects theywere the same; in some respects they were different. We th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC ALDERSON REPORTING COMPANY think, for relevant purposes, they were the same. ThisCourt has characterized the abuse of the writ doctrine,which of course predated AEDPA, as a modified res judicatarule. A slightly less modified res judicata rule iscodified in AEDPA. But at least since McCleskey v. Zant,which is a decision, a prisoner was presumptivelyentitled to file only one motion. The showing hewould have to make to be able to file a second one wasslightly different and slightly easier to make than it ispost --QUESTION: Well, he -- he never -- he did not inthe district court file such a motion. He filed this rule(b) thing, that the Government then volunteered itwouldn't mind if the court treated as a and thedistrict court treated it as such. It was not Castro'surging.and --MR. HIMMELFARB: That's true, Justice O'Connor,QUESTION: And there was no enactment at thattime of AEDPA.MR. HIMMELFARB: That -- that is true as well. We do not take the position that the motion was properlycharacterized as a motion. We take two positions. One is that the Court may not reach that question becauseit lacks jurisdiction, and second, that if the Court does th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC ALDERSON REPORTING COMPANY have jurisdiction, it should not reach that questionbecause there was a forfeiture. The characterizationcould have been appealed, but wasn't. QUESTION: Well, this -- this business of havinga court recharacterize a motion as a motion was adoctrine that seems to have been developed before AEDPAwas enacted, and some circuits since the enactment ofAEDPA have decided that if they're going -- if thedistrict court is going to do that, that some noticeshould be given, certainly to a pro se petitioner, aboutthe consequences of that recharacterization. Now, shouldwe propose such a rule or adopt such a rule in oursupervisory capacity?MR. HIMMELFARB: Justice O'Connor, we have no objection in principle to requiring that -- to -- to arule requiring that a district court provide a defendantwith notice before characterizing a post-conviction motionas a motion. Our position is that --QUESTION: If we were to do it, which -- whichversion would be the best?MR. HIMMELFARB: Well, I'll answer thatquestion. Before I do, I just want to make clear that ourposition is that this is not an appropriate case to dothat because our view is that any objection to notice,either a lack of notice or an inadequate -- inadequacy of th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC ALDERSON REPORTING COMPANY notice has to be made in connection with a motion that'scharacterized. And once you get to a subsequent stage ofthe litigation, it's too late for that to happen. QUESTION: Mr. Himmelfarb, the -- the reality iswe have a pro se litigant who loses in the district court. He gets a piece of paper that says, your motion under ruleis now being disposed of, and then the bottom linesays, your motion is denied. Do you really think that apro se litigant forfeits his rights to raise what may be avery important substantive question on habeas because hedidn't know to look to the body of the opinion that saidsomething about and that that's a forfeiture? Imean, even a lawyer might have missed it when the thingstarts out, this is a rule motion, motion denied. That's what you're urging, that that kind offorfeiture be visited on a pro se prisoner who wasuncounseled and never appeared before any court to be toldanything. That strikes me as the Government not turningsquare corners.MR. HIMMELFARB: Justice Ginsburg, we don'tthink that's the case at all. There is, of course, noright to counsel in connection with post-convictionlitigation and the vast majority of --QUESTION: The right to know the consequences ofwhat you're doing. You can -- a forfeiture is usually th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC ALDERSON REPORTING COMPANY knowing. Here, this litigant had no reason to know aboutanything other than he was appealing from the denial ofhis rule motion.MR. HIMMELFARB: The -- the defendant in thiscase, petitioner, did litigate the question ofcharacterization. When the Government in its oppositionto his rule motion recommended that it be treated asboth a rule motion and a motion, in his reply heobjected. He took the position that it should not betreated as a motion and should be treated only as arule motion. So he was aware of -- of what was beingdone and he felt that it was a significant enough decisionthat it should be litigated, and he objected. Our position is that he should have continued toobject. AEDPA imposes all types of restrictions on post-conviction litigation. QUESTION: Yes, but my question to you is, didhe have any reason to know? You say he put in hisobjection, yes. Then he gets a document that only in thebody refers to . Why couldn't he reasonably see thatpiece of paper as saying, you filed a rule motion, yourmotion is denied? I mean, you are loading a lot onto apro se litigant who has never appeared before any court.MR. HIMMELFARB: We don't think that the fact th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC ALDERSON REPORTING COMPANY that he is pro se should have any part in the analysisbecause that would create all sorts of difficulties inother AEDPA cases where you have difficult questions,particularly difficult, perhaps byzantine, proceduralrules that a petitioner is obligated to follow. QUESTION: Well, usually courts do their bestwhen they deal with pro se litigants to have themunderstand what's going on. I mean, we have all kinds ofprocedures in our criminal justice system just to assurethat people will understand what the rules are and whatthe pitfalls are.MR. HIMMELFARB: That's true, Justice Ginsburg. AEDPA is not one of those statutes. Once a -- a defendantwho files a self --QUESTION: Yes, but you're not relying on AEDPAon this branch of the case. We're back before the days ofAEDPA. You're saying because he didn't in his appeal fromthe denial of the rule motion say, and P.S., court ofappeals, there was a mischaracterization -- all of thathappened before AEDPA, and that's what you're holding himto.MR. HIMMELFARB: That's true, Justice Ginsburg,but even before AEDPA, the rules governing post-convictionlitigation could be quite difficult to navigate, and even th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC ALDERSON REPORTING COMPANY before AEDPA, most post-conviction litigation was carriedout pro se. There are two different places in -- in thedistrict court --QUESTION: But you just -- you just agreed. Yousaid you had no reservation about what these other courtshave said must go on in the district courts. You justdon't think that this is a proper case because there's nojurisdiction. But you -- you are recognizing that courts,wanting to do justice, do and should inform litigants ofthe consequences.MR. HIMMELFARB: Justice Ginsburg, I don't wantto leave the Court with that impression. I think Istarted to answer another Justice's question and in -- in answering it, I said that in principle we have noobjection to a rule requiring notice beforerecharacterization. QUESTION: In principle, you have no objection. What about in practice? MR. HIMMELFARB: In practice as well. It's thenature of the notice that I wanted to say a little bitmore about. Some of the decisions on which petitionerrelies have -- have language in them that not only --suggesting that not only must the defendant be notifiedthat the district court plans to treat the motion as a th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC ALDERSON REPORTING COMPANY motion, but also that he be warned of itsconsequences. We have no objection insofar as there's arequirement that he be notified of how it would betreated.We don't think there should be warnings aboutthe consequences. Once a defendant is notified that themotion is going to be treated as a motion, he standsin no different position from somebody who's filed a self-styled motion, and the law has never required thatthat --QUESTION: Is -- is there one of the circuitsthat has taken the position that you, in principle and inpractice, would say is a sound one?MR. HIMMELFARB: I think if -- if we had tochoose, we would prefer the Third Circuit's rule underwhich essentially there are three options when a post-conviction motion, not styled a motion, is filed. The defendant has the option of having it ruled upon asfiled. He can be given notice that it's going to berecharacterized, and it will be recharacterized, or he canwithdraw it so that he will not be prevented from filing asecond --QUESTION: See, do you think on that -- that --you're now answering Justice O'Connor's question which is th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC ALDERSON REPORTING COMPANY just what I was interested in. On page of your brief,you basically say that on the substantive rule here, youagree with the other side. I mean, pretty much. Andthat's what all the circuits have done. And then youimpose a couple of procedural obstacles.Well, assume you don't win your proceduralobstacles. All right. Suppose I find and the Court findsthat this is appealable, and suppose this law of the casething is -- you say -- why shouldn't he have the advantageof the rule, this particular person, the rule that we'reabout to announce?Now, at that point, I want to know what rule arewe about to announce under what power. And here I'd likeyour opinion on two approaches which are different. One is we announce a rule on our supervisoryauthority, as most of the courts have done, and then wehave two difficulties. One, we're in an area we know notwhat. You know, we're not involved in recharacterizationas a daily basis. And moreover, we're not sure what ruleto pick or what exact formulation, which will make a hugedifference. Now, the other approach is the First Circuit'sapproach, which is not the reason it commends itself tome, but I just put it out there. And that is to say we th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC ALDERSON REPORTING COMPANY interpret the words, second or successive petition, inAEDPA not to include this. You see, what they weretalking about in Congress was not this. They didn't thinka second or successive petition was second or successivewhere the first one took place under these no-warningcircumstances before AEDPA was even enacted. Now, I thinkthey come to exactly the same place, but that secondapproach, which they followed, doesn't get us into thebusiness of writing rules in some kind of supervisorycapacity in the dark. Now -- but I want the SG's view, i.e., yourview, on the comparative merits of those two ways ofgetting to the same place. And I'm really uncertain. I-- I'd be very interested in what you think. MR. HIMMELFARB: Our view is that the FirstCircuit's view, which does not require notice but simplysays that if there is no notice, the second motion isdeemed to be a first motion, should not be adopted becausewe think it's inconsistent with the basic principle ofpost-conviction litigation, which we're urging this Courtto adopt in this case, that you have to file yourchallenges to rulings made against you at the earliestpossible opportunity. The First Circuit's rule, ineffect, gives the defendant a right to file a later th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC ALDERSON REPORTING COMPANY appeal.QUESTION: Yes, but I think you're missing --say -- say the same content. Let's have equivalentcontent to the rule. Is it better for us to -- to saywe're reading AEDPA or is it better for us to say we are-- which is open to the -- this kind of reading. We haveto decide the scope of those words in the -- in the blockof AEDPA. Or is it better for us to try to write a rule? That -- that's what I'm interested in. I can work out therest of the content, and actually the First Circuitapproach needn't have a content. I mean, it can reallyhave quite a minimal content, but -- but that's what I'minterested in. MR. HIMMELFARB: We don't --QUESTION: Am I being clear? Do you understandit? MR. HIMMELFARB: Yes. We don't AEDPA canreasonably be read to say that a motion is one thatis characterized as not filed as one, but is characterizedone after notice, and that if there's no notice, it's nota motion. Our position on notice is that it'sessentially an adjunct of the prior decision torecharacterize. And I want to be clear. Recharacterization, th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC ALDERSON REPORTING COMPANY particularly in a post-AEDPA world, does not benefit onlythe defendant, a defendant who might be able -- might notbe able to get his claim ruled upon if it's notrecharacterized. QUESTION: I'm sure that's right, but you -- youthink we should go into the rule-writing business, say, inour supervisory capacity. These -- these rules -- thiskind -- this is the consequence that attaches torecharacterization. A recharacterization is not arecharacterization that fits within AEDPA unless it getsnotice, et cetera, et cetera. That's what you think weought to do.MR. HIMMELFARB: No. Our position --QUESTION: If we -- I know you don't really, butI mean, if we get to that point and we've -- we rejectyour other two.MR. HIMMELFARB: To the extent that the Courtwishes to impose a notice requirement, our view is that itshould go essentially like this. It is important torecharacterize a post-conviction motion not styled a motion if it seeks relief available only under . It'simportant because it can help the defendant. It's alsoimportant because if it's not recharacterized, you run therisk that Congress' clear purpose to prohibit second or th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC ALDERSON REPORTING COMPANY successive post-conviction motions could be evaded.We -- that -- that is essentially a judge-maderule, recharacterization. We think, as a matter offairness and also as a matter of reducing potentiallitigation, it is appropriate, once you've got the judge-made rule that says you should recharacterize, to gofurther and say, before you do, notice has to be given.QUESTION: Wouldn't it -- wouldn't it be muchsimpler just to say if a district court recharacterizes,it must do this without going into when or why you shouldrecharacterize? MR. HIMMELFARB: It probably -- I think itwould, Mr. Chief Justice. Our only point is that if there's going to be a recharacterization and there's goingto be notice, the only notice should be I plan torecharacterize. We don't think that the district courtshould give any kinds of warnings about the consequencesof recharacterization for the reasons I gave JusticeGinsburg. QUESTION: But didn't the -- doesn't that --isn't that included in the Third Circuit formulation?MR. HIMMELFARB: I think it may well be. Ithink most of the courts of appeals take the view that youshould not only give notice of the intent to th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC ALDERSON REPORTING COMPANY recharacterize, you should also give some sort of warningsabout the consequences of the --QUESTION: Why do you want --QUESTION: You should give an opportunity to --to say I'll withdraw my petition or I'll amend my petitionto say everything that I could say under the heading of.MR. HIMMELFARB: Our view is that giving noticeof an intent to recharacterize puts the defendant in thesame position as one who filed a self-styled , andunder the law of post-conviction litigation, such adefendant is held responsible for the consequences offiling that motion.QUESTION: That's not the position that any ofthe circuits have taken.MR. HIMMELFARB: I think that -- I think that'sprobably right. I think they -- to the extent theyrequire notice, within that notice, they think thereshould be some warning about the consequences ofcharacterization. We think that that can't be reconciledwith the fact that there's a detailed procedural schemegoverning post-conviction motions and Congress saidnothing about warnings as it did, for example, in thecontext -- th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC ALDERSON REPORTING COMPANY QUESTION: Isn't there a difference between acase in which a litigant makes up his mind to file a -- presumably he should have found out what's theconsequence of that -- and the situation in which he filessomething else and the judge says, I'm going to change it? How does he know what the consequences are if he hasn'thad a chance to think it through?MR. HIMMELFARB: Justice Stevens, the way weenvision the regime working is that the motion is filedand the district court issues an order which it serves onparties, giving notice that it intends to recharacterizeand some amount of time will elapse before the defendantis obligated to come back to the court and tell the court whether it wishes for the court to go forward withrecharacterization or allow him to withdraw. So withinthat period of --QUESTION: But you would say therecharacterization could not take place until after therewas that time -- notice and a time to accept or object toit.MR. HIMMELFARB: That's right. I think that'sreasonably encompassed --QUESTION: Which, of course, didn't happen here.MR. HIMMELFARB: That's true. No notice was th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC ALDERSON REPORTING COMPANY given here.QUESTION: The -- the point of implausibility I-- I have with your argument is that when the district --your argument to the effect that no notice of consequenceneeds to be given, merely a notice that recharacterizationwill take place. The -- the point is that when a pointdoes that, the court is understood to be trying to helpout the defendant. Whether the court puts it in preciselythose words or not, that's -- that's the object. The --the court, in effect, is saying, look, I'm going to helpyou here because you don't know how to plead this stuff,and -- and I'm going to recharacterize this as under .It seems very odd for the court, in effect, to be in the position of saying, I'm going to help you out byrecharacterizing and at the same time keep its mouth shutabout the fact that when it does recharacterize, theconsequence is going to be that that fellow is going to beout on his ear if he ever wants to walk in with anotherclaim that could have been made under . It seems tome that if courts are going to help, they've got to helpin a -- in a way that does not mislead the defendant, andyour argument says they can help, as it were, in a waythat does mislead him.MR. HIMMELFARB: Justice Souter, the -- the th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC ALDERSON REPORTING COMPANY purpose of helping defendants is not the only reason forrecharacterization. It also serves the interest ofvindicating Congress' purpose in enacting the bar onsecond or successive motions in AEDPA. It vindicates --this Court made that clear --QUESTION: Thank you, Mr. Himmelfarb.Mr. Frick, you have minutes remaining.MR. FRICK: Your Honor, if there are no furtherquestions, we would waive rebuttal.CHIEF JUSTICE REHNQUIST: The case is submitted. Thank you. MR. HIMMELFARB: Thank you, Your Honor. (Whereupon, at : a.m., the case in the above-entitled matter was submitted.) th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC ALDERSON REPORTING COMPANY 