 IN THE SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATECHARLES THOMAS SELL, Petitioner ::v. : No. -UNITED STATES :- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -XWashington, D.C.Monday, March , The above-entitled matter came on for oralargument before the Supreme Court of the United States at: a.m.APPEARANCES:BARRY A. SHORT, ESQ., St. Louis, Missouri; on behalf ofthe Petitioner.MICHAEL R. DREEBEN, ESQ., Deputy Solicitor General, Department of Justice, Washington, D.C.; onbehalf of the Respondent. th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC C O N T E N T SORAL ARGUMENT OF BARRY A. SHORT, ESQ.On behalf of the Petitioner ORAL ARGUMENT OFMICHAEL R. DREEBEN, ESQ.On behalf of the Respondent REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OFBARRY A. SHORT, ESQ.On behalf of the Petitioner PAGE th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC P R O C E E D I N G S(: a.m.)CHIEF JUSTICE REHNQUIST: We'll hear argumentnow in Number -, Charles Thomas Sell v. The UnitedStates.Mr. Short.ORAL ARGUMENT OF BARRY A. SHORTON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONERMR. SHORT: Mr. Chief Justice, and may it pleasethe Court:On Friday, this Court entered its order statingthat counsel should be prepared to discuss thejurisdiction of this Court and of the court of appeals,and cited the Cohen v. Beneficial case, and they --QUESTION: Mr. Short, did that subject jurisdiction come up when you were in the court ofappeals?MR. SHORT: It did not come up in the court ofappeals, Justice O'Connor.In the first --QUESTION: It is interlocutory?MR. SHORT: It's a decision from -- it's a finaldecision under the collateral order doctrine.QUESTION: Well, that's the issue. Is it?MR. SHORT: That's the issue, I believe, yes. th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC QUESTION: No trial has taken place?MR. SHORT: No trial has taken place, not atall.I -- I believe that this Court, of course, hasjurisdiction pursuant to section because it granted awrit of certiorari to the Eighth Circuit Court of Appeals. The court of appeals had jurisdiction pursuant to section, providing for appeal of final decisions of thedistrict courts. I believe this was a final decisionpursuant to the Cohen collateral final order doctrine.Now, while this Court has not addressed thecollateral order doctrine under these set of facts, thecourts of appeals that have, have unanimously concludedthat an order approving the involuntary medication of a pretrial detainee constitutes an appealable order under Cohen, and these cases are set forth in footnote , page of the Government's brief.In order to fall within the collateral orderdoctrine, the order must satisfy several requirements. Itmust conclusively determine the dispute question, it mustresolve an important issue completely and separate fromthe merits of the underlying action, and it must beeffectively unreviewable on appeal from the finaljudgment.QUESTION: Well, that's the question. Would -- th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC if it -- if we did not think there were jurisdiction, thenat the end of the day, if the defendant were tried, Isuppose that issue could be raised then.MR. SHORT: Except by that time, JusticeO'Connor, his rights will have already been infringed. Hewill not be able to become unmedicated.QUESTION: Well, but that's not the point. Thepoint is whether the third requirement has been met, thatit is effectively nonreviewable unless it's reviewed thisway. It seems to me it is reviewable.QUESTION: We held that in Riggins.MR. SHORT: Riggins -- Riggins was looking at apost conviction case, however, and looking only to see ifhis trial rights had been violated.QUESTION: Perhaps it depends on whether we're talking about the right to avoid medication, as opposed tothe right to avoid medication for purposes of trial, andthe latter would give you maybe somewhat more difficultyunder prong , whereas the former, the right can only bevindicated by treating this as a final order. Would youaccept that, or would you say that it's final even if whatyou're talking about is the right to avoid medication forpurposes of standing trial?MR. SHORT: I would say on all three it would. Certainly under -- under the First and the Fifth th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC Amendments, whatever rights he would have would have beeninfringed irreparably once he's medicated.QUESTION: Well, are there -- are there no waysto challenge that, except in the context of the criminalprosecution? I mean, if -- if you had objections to beingmedicated, whether for purposes of, of making your clientcapable of standing trial or not, if you had objections tobeing medicated, why couldn't those objections be broughtunder section or in some civil action?MR. SHORT: My reflections on that, JusticeScalia, is, it would probably be too late. By the time webrought any type of other action, I believe the Governmentwould have proceeded in the criminal case and gone aheadwith the order and had him medicated.I also see filing such an action with another district court, for example, having it defer to the courtin which the criminal action was pending, I think there'ssome -- I think there's some procedural problems with, bythe time that was done, Dr. Sell may have already beenmedicated, and of course -- we will address these issueshopefully in our briefs that are due, that are due Friday.QUESTION: What concerns me is, you know, theCohen doctrine is over half a century old.MR. SHORT: Yes, sir.QUESTION: It has no rooting in the text. The th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC text of Congress' statute is quite absolute. We have madein that half a century only three exceptions under the,under the Cohen doctrine, and I'm truly concerned about,about the extent to which this new exception would, wouldbe available to disrupt criminal trials considerably. Forexample, a defendant, instead of challenging the, theorder initially can, can half-way through trial decide hedoes not want any medication, and then the trial has to bepostponed so that, so that the order to continue themedication can be appealed. I just see real difficultiesin running a criminal justice system when, when this kindof an order is immediately appealable, rather thanreviewable at the end of the criminal case.MR. SHORT: Again, Justice Scalia, all I can sayis, I think by the time that would be reviewed, filed, and considered, I'm afraid Dr. Sell will have been medicated,and again we've already, of course --QUESTION: Well, that's perfectly true, but Ithink the hypothesis offered by Justice Scalia, at leastas I understand it, is that even if that's the case,perhaps he has to wait till the end of the criminal trialin order to appeal it because our policy against piecemealappeals in criminal cases has been so strict.MR. SHORT: I do -- I do understand that, but --and again, I think this is unreviewable. th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC QUESTION: Do you -- do you equate it to bail,bail pending trial? If it's denied, and the trial goeson, you can't get it back again once the trial is over.Is -- is that your point, with respect to once -- oncehe's drugged he can't be --MR. SHORT: Once --QUESTION: -- restored?MR. SHORT: It's a simple statement, but oncehe's medicated he can't be unmedicated.QUESTION: I think you're confusing unreviewablewith irreversible. To be sure, it can't be reversed, butcan it be reviewed? In the case of bail, it can't bereviewed, because once the trial is over, it's a mootquestion. It cannot be reviewed. It's not just that itcan't be reversed, it cannot be reviewed.But you're here asserting that this issue cannotbe reviewed. It seems to me that's just patently false. It can be reviewed. Your complaint is that it can't bereversed, but that has never been the, the Cohencriterion.MR. SHORT: My view, Justice Scalia, is it can't be effectively reviewed. Once he's medicated withthese drugs, whatever changes take place, these drugs aremeant to cause changes to take place. That's the purposeof giving him these drugs. In effect, the decision will th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC have been made, his mind will have been altered, inwhatever segment that is altered, and that cannot beundone.QUESTION: That is his -- if that is hisobjection, and if his objection is not that my criminaltrial will be distorted, he should bring a separate civilaction and perhaps the court would stay the criminalaction until that one is, until that civil action isdetermined, but it's an entirely different procedure tocome in in the criminal case and seek an interlocutoryappeal from that order, and I just don't --QUESTION: May I ask a question about theback -- about the background order? Isn't it correct thatin this case the Bureau of Prisons got an orderauthorizing them to medicate your, your client? MR. SHORT: Justice Stevens, that is correct.QUESTION: And then you got a stay of thatorder?MR. SHORT: Yeah. There was appeal -- there wasan appeal of that order, and then we filed a motion withthe magistrate judge to have a hearing as to whether ornot, as to the propriety of whether or not he should bemedicated, yes. That's -- that's theprocedural standpoint --QUESTION: But to pursue Justice Stevens' th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC question, that order was in the context of this criminalcase.MR. SHORT: Yes, it was.QUESTION: Yes.QUESTION: The Bureau of Prisons order was inthe context of this criminal case? I -- I thought thatthey ordered him to be medicated before -- before thetrial was -- was on the horizon. Is that --MR. SHORT: He was -- he was sent to theSpringfield Medical Center after being found incompetentunder section , in order to be treated to see if hecould be restored to competency.QUESTION: You're going to brief this issue, soperhaps we ought to, since your time is running out, hearsomething on the merits of your --MR. SHORT: Very well.QUESTION: -- case.MR. SHORT: Very well.The individual, of course, we are talking abouttoday is Charles Thomas Sell. He's a dentist. He is apretrial detainee. He has not been convicted of anycrime. In his present setting, he is neither dangerous tohimself, nor is he dangerous to others. The Governmentwishes to medicate Dr. Sell.QUESTION: Is that a finding we have from the th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC lower courts, that he is not dangerous to himself orothers?MR. SHORT: Yes, it is, Justice O'Connor. Thedistrict court made that finding, and -- and --essentially reversing the magistrate court, and theappellate court affirmed the district court's finding thathe was not dangerous.The Government wants to forcibly administer toDr. Sell antipsychotic drugs solely on the chance that itcan, that it can bring him to trial on insurance fraudcharges, nonviolent crimes. Dr. Sell does not want to beforcibly medicated. In his own words, he said, I do notwant my chemistry altered. My brain is working fine.Now, Dr. Sell is legally incompetent. Hesuffers from a rare mental disorder called delusional disorder, persecutory type. This is not schizophrenia. The main feature of this disorder is nonbizarre delusions. In other words, thoughts that are plausible, thoughts thatcan conceivably come true, probably won't. In Dr. Sell'scase, he believes the FBI is out to discredit or harm him. Excuse me.QUESTION: As I take it, that's try -- that istied into the competence to stand trial because he thinksthat's why he is being prosecuted, is that it, that theFBI is behind this? th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC MR. SHORT: Justice Souter, that's absolutelytrue.delusion.QUESTION: Yes.MR. SHORT: That's part of -- that's part of theBut another feature of this disorder is thatapart from the direct impact of the delusions,psychosocial functioning is not markedly, markedlyimpaired, nor is the behavior odd, which means that hisdisorder only affects him in a narrow, a very narrow band,but the rest -- most of his life he can perform as anormal person would, function in a normal manner, and as amatter of fact --QUESTION: Then he should be able to standtrial.MR. SHORT: The problem --QUESTION: If he's so normal.MR. SHORT: The problem, Justice Scalia, is,because of his delusion he can't focus on the trial --QUESTION: I see.MR. SHORT: -- on anything else other than theFBI.QUESTION: Well, what is your solution for thisdilemma? We cannot try him for the crime that he'saccused of, because his mind is not working properly. He th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC is entitled to refuse, you say, drugs that would cause hismind to work properly. It's a vicious -- what -- what dowe do with him? Do we continue to hold him with theinability to stand trial, not treat him, because herefuses treatment? I -- it's just a crazy situation. What can be done about it?MR. SHORT: Your Honor, our -- because we feelthat he is a) medically competent -- no one has evercontended that Dr. Sell is not medically competent. Dr.Sell is perfectly able to make his own health caredecisions, and make his own decisions about his mind andhis body, and he has made the decision --QUESTION: But he's legally incompetent, yousay --MR. SHORT: He's legally incompetent --QUESTION: -- to stand trial.MR. SHORT: Yes, but he's not mentallyincompetent.QUESTION: And is there a finding below thatmedication will -- there's a substantial probability hewould be restored to competence if there were medication?MR. SHORT: The standard's changed somewhat, butthe answer is essentially yes.QUESTION: And is there a finding that no lessintrusive alternative is available to restore him to th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC competence?MR. SHORT: Yes, there was such a finding.QUESTION: And that the medication is medicallyappropriate?MR. SHORT: Yes, there was --QUESTION: Yes.MR. SHORT: There was --QUESTION: And even under those circumstances,you assert that there can be no medication?MR. SHORT: Yes. That is -- that is myposition.QUESTION: And what is your general principle oflaw that justifies your position?MR. SHORT: First of all, since he is medicallycompetent, he can make decisions about his own person and body.QUESTION: I thought that you might have gonefurther in your case, and to say the Government just hasno right to put needles into pretrial detainees?MR. SHORT: Well, on a -- at a basic level thatis, that is what -- we have a -- we have a nondangerous --QUESTION: I mean, they can make the defendantwear a hat, put on clothes, give a voice exempt bar. Thisis somehow different. It seems to me at least thatought -- th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC MR. SHORT: This is --QUESTION: You don't exactly argue that.MR. SHORT: This is very different, Your Honor. We are dealing with a person who has been merely accusedof a crime. He is medically competent. He isnondangerous.QUESTION: Well, you say he's nondangerous. Hewas later charged with attempted murder, wasn't he?MR. SHORT: He was charged with that offense,yes.QUESTION: He doesn't sound nondangerous.(Laughter.)QUESTION: So what are we supposed to do, justdo this on the hypothetical basis that he isn't, althoughmaybe he is?MR. SHORT: No, Justice Breyer, not at all. Thenondangerousness --QUESTION: He didn't -- he did --MR. SHORT: The only -- the only times -- as Iread the cases, pretrial detainees -- these are civillycommitted people -- can be medically administeredantipsychotic drugs is if they are in the prison settingand they are dangerous to themselves --QUESTION: So a person who's in a mentalhospital, civilly committed, and he's dangerous, going to th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC commit suicide or possibly kill someone, that the doctorsin that civil setting are forbidden to administerpsychotic drugs? That's not my understanding. Is that --MR. SHORT: Maybe I -- maybe I --QUESTION: -- what you're saying?MR. SHORT: Maybe I misstated --QUESTION: All right, but -- so -- but myquestion on this case is the following. I take it yousay, to follow the psychological association's standards,one, the court did consider whether any nondrug therapycould restore him to competence, and it answered thequestion, no.The court did consider whether there was asubstantial likelihood of success in restoring thedefendant to competence, and they answered, yes. The court did consider whether the effectivenessof the drugs clearly outweighed the risk from sideeffects, and it said yes.It also considered the effects of the Fifth andSixth Amendment rights to fair trial, and decided theyweren't enough to change the question, so it seems to methat once you concede all that, they're following theright standards. So is your claim that we should go and reviewbecause they, although they purported to follow the right th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC standards they didn't really do it, in other words, goingto the facts of this case, or is your claim that thosestandards that your side's amicus says are the right ones,are not the right ones and, if so, what are?MR. SHORT: Our view is that, first of all wehave fundamental rights at stake here, and the Governmentmust show then, of course, a compelling interest inoverriding those fundamental interests.QUESTION: But I would appreciate a directanswer to my question.MR. SHORT: I'm sorry. Maybe I misunderstood --QUESTION: It seems to me, either you have tosay that the psychological association standards arewrong, or you have to say they're right, and if you saythey're right, then you have to ask us to say they weren't applied correctly here, but I want to know if you thinkthey're the wrong ones, or if you think they're the rightones.MR. SHORT: I'm not sure I understand therequirements of --QUESTION: Well, if you read -- if you'd simplyread the table of contents, as I'm certain you have --MR. SHORT: Oh, I have.QUESTION: -- of the APA, the psychologicalassociation's brief, filed on your side -- th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC MR. SHORT: Yes.QUESTION: -- they have four standards, so I'masking you if you think those are the right standards.MR. SHORT: I think essentially those are theright standards.QUESTION: Okay. If you think those are thereright standards, do you think they were applied here?MR. SHORT: Yes.QUESTION: Yes, all right. Then is what you'reasking us to do, since you think they were applied, andyou don't like the answer the court came to, is whatyou're asking us to do today is take those standards, lookto see how the court applied them, and come to theconclusion that they applied them incorrectly, or are youasking us to do something else?MR. SHORT: Essentially --QUESTION: I'm just trying to clarify --MR. SHORT: Essentially that's it.QUESTION: That's it. QUESTION: And I -- I don't know why you concedethat the Government has this right at all. What gives theGovernment the authority to medicate a pretrial detaineeor someone pretrial -- supposing they're not even in, incustody. Can they essentially, out with a needle the daybefore the trial and say, we're going to get you ready for th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC trial?MR. SHORT: Well, it's very possible then, ofcourse, I'm not understanding Justice Breyer's contention,and it's my fault. I don't concede that they can do thisat all.QUESTION: Well then, you think these standardsare wrong. The standards -- can you come up in yourmind --MR. SHORT: I --QUESTION: I won't pursue this, but I'm justtrying to clarify what it is you want us to do. Now, callinto your own mind the standards of the AmericanPsychological Association. I read that amicus with somecare, I'm very interested, and it seemed to me similar inprinciple to the Government's point of view, and I want to know, in -- though they may not think they're appliedcorrectly here, but what -- what -- tell me about it.MR. SHORT: I'm sorry, I can't recall theirstandards with such preciseness that I can answer thatquestion.QUESTION: Well, I thought, looking at yourbrief, that you were asserting that the petitioner has aright to be free from compelled medication by theGovernment, period, per se. That's the rule.MR. SHORT: That is my under -- that is my -- th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC QUESTION: Page of your brief. So youdon't -- you don't go along with any other standards. You're saying there is an absolute right to be free fromcompelled medication.MR. SHORT: That is our position.QUESTION: How about -- how about -- how aboutvaccinating little children with a needle againstsmallpox? I guess there's no right to do that by theGovernment?MR. SHORT: Yes, there is a right to do that.QUESTION: Oh.MR. SHORT: The intrusion there is very minimal,and I think the Government -- the governmental interest isobviously to protect it against the spread of whateverdis --QUESTION: And I take it that's pursuant to thestatute, not because some prosecutor thinks it's a goodidea.MR. SHORT: That's --QUESTION: Then you don't even agree with thedissenting judge in the court below who said there couldbe forcible medication for a violent crime?MR. SHORT: I do not -- that's correct, Mr.Chief Justice. I do not --QUESTION: Well, the -- -- th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC QUESTION: Then I wish you'd go back to aquestion I asked earlier that I don't think I got ananswer to. What do you propose that we do with this man? He's been accused of a serious crime. For purposes ofthis case you're willing to assume it to be the same if hehad been accused of a violent crime.MR. SHORT: That's correct.QUESTION: He is -- his mental ability is suchthat he cannot be tried. The means are available tostraighten his mind out so that he is competent to standtrial, but you say no, if he refuses that, we must respecthis wishes. Then what do we do with him? Do we let himgo?MR. SHORT: The direct answer to your question,Justice Scalia, is --QUESTION: Is we let him go.MR. SHORT: -- is that you do not -- he will notbe let go.QUESTION: Why not?QUESTION: What happens to him? You can't keephim in prison indefinitely. I had very much the samequestion in mind. As I understand it, and correct me ifI'm wrong, he could not be civilly committed, since he'sbeen found nondangerous.MR. SHORT: That's correct. th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC QUESTION: If he were found dangerous, he couldbe civilly committed. So here he is, nondangerous, butincompetent to stand trial. You -- you agree that civilcommitment was -- isn't -- isn't available under thosecircumstances?MR. SHORT: No, I -- civil commitment is what'sgoing to happen to this individual under .QUESTION: How? How is he going to be committedif he's not dangerous?MR. SHORT: Because provides that a personwho can't stand trial because they are legally incompetentare referred to the sections of . The director atthat facility, under section , will then have to makea determination as to whether or not Dr. Sell is asubstantial risk to persons or property of others if --QUESTION: And -- and you are telling us -- andyou are telling us, are you not, that he is not asubstantial risk? That -- that that may not be somethingwe accept in view of the murder charge, but I mean, onyour theory, you are saying he's not dangerous.MR. SHORT: Justice Souter, I'm saying there aretwo different standards at --QUESTION: No, I realize there are two differentstandards, but there's -- if I understand therepresentations you have been making to the Court about th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC your client, under the standard for commitment, if hecannot be tried, he would not be subject to commitment. Am I wrong?MR. SHORT: Yes, Your Honor.QUESTION: He would -- so are you -- are you --MR. SHORT: He would. He would --QUESTION: He would be subject to commitment?MR. SHORT: He is subject to commitment under.QUESTION: He satisfies the criteria forcommitment?MR. SHORT: Yes, he does. He does, and --QUESTION: And I thought that the whole reasonwhy we're -- how you got to this stage is that a districtcourt made a finding that this man is not a danger to himself or others, and now you want to say for purposes ofthe -- your being here on that question, could he bemedicated, because he's not a danger to himself or others,that finding holds, but once he avoids the trial, then hecan say, ah, but for purposes of civil commitment I amdangerous to myself or others?MR. SHORT: No, that -- that's not what willhappen to Dr. Sell. He will then go from the to, at which time the director of that facility willhave to make a determination whether he is a substantial th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC risk to others, or property to others, if he is released. He then has to make that certification. It goes to thedistrict court. They have to prove that by clear andconvincing evidence, and if they so show, he does remaincommitted.QUESTION: Yes, but you keep saying, if theyshow. Are you conceding that, in fact, the evidence isthere to show it and that he will be in fact subject to --that he will, in fact, be lawfully committed?MR. SHORT: No, I am not -- I am not --QUESTION: Then I don't see how you've answeredJustice Scalia's question.MR. SHORT: No, I will tell you, from myexperience in this case, I suspect that's precisely what'sgoing to happen, because of what the Government's view is of this individual.QUESTION: No, but you --QUESTION: Well, I -- I hope that's what's goingto happen, but I -- but I don't know how it -- how itcomes about with the law as you've described it to us. That's -- that's my problem.QUESTION: I have a different problem. Let meexplain to you what -- I imagine that the slogan, mind-altering drugs, is not a very good slogan for presentpurposes, because there are a lot of seriously ill people th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC whom these drugs do help a lot.MR. SHORT: That's correct.QUESTION: Now, if we're thinking of that classof people, how are they any different from the class ofpeople with very, very high blood pressure whose lives areat risk, and could be perhaps medicated with bloodpressure medicine. These people could be medicated withantidelusional medicine. Now, is there a differencebetween those two circumstances?That doesn't answer the question, because whatI'm looking for are the right standards to use to separatethose genuinely ill people from others who may be moreborderline, or may be less obviously helped.Now, you don't -- I realize now you don't havemuch time, but I'm -- that's what I'm struggling with in this case.MR. SHORT: The standard, the standard, YourHonor, is whether or not -- and this is very basic,whether the person has the right to make the choice. Ourposition is that Dr. Sell has the right to make the choiceover his medical decisions.He has had experience with antipsychotic drugs. He took Haldol in the 's. He had an attack of acutedystonia, which this Court has recognized as being aserious side effect in at least three cases, Harper, th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC Riggins, and Mills. He also has a psychiatrist that hastold him that antipsychotic drugs will not work ondelusional disorders, and Dr. Sell, with all due respectto what he's charged with, is not a stupid person. Hedoes not want to undergo the effects of antipsychoticmedication. He is making that a free choice, and with alldue respect, I think he has a right to make that choice.QUESTION: Do you wish to reserve your remainingtime, Mr. Short?MR. SHORT: Thank you, Your Honor, I do.QUESTION: Very well.Now, Mr. Dreeben, we'll hear from you.ORAL ARGUMENT OF MICHAEL R. DREEBENON BEHALF OF THE RESPONDENTMR. DREEBEN: Thank you, Mr. Chief Justice, and may it please the Court:I'd like to address the question of jurisdictionfirst. Dr. Sell's claim should be analyzed as having tworelated but distinct components. One component of hisclaim is a Harper-style objection to forcible medicationby the Government in order to render him competent tostand trial. The second component of his claim is aRiggins-style objection to the fairness of his trial if,in fact, he is medicated and restored to competence andtried. th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC The Riggins-style claim is clearly not amenableto review under the collateral order doctrine. Dr. Sellhas not even been tried. There is clearly nodetermination yet whether he can be given a fair trial,whether he will receive one, and he may raise an objectionto the fairness of his trial at the conclusion of thecriminal case and obtain reversal of his conviction atthat time, but the Harper-style claim is amenable toreview under the collateral order doctrine. It deals witha right that is effectively unreviewable if not reviewednow, just as this Court's cases addressing double jeopardyclaims and qualified immunity claims are effectivelyunreviewable if not reviewed --QUESTION: Well, it's not just they'reunreviewable, Mr. Dreeben, but it would -- I think we said in those cases there the claim was a right not to betried.MR. DREEBEN: Correct, and --QUESTION: Not to be tried at all.MR. DREEBEN: -- that right would be lost if thetrial occurs. Here, one of his claims is a right not tobe medicated. That right will be lost if, in fact, he ismedicated.QUESTION: Well, what if -- what if -- what ifsomeone says, I claim a right to be tried without this th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC evidence that I want suppressed but the court has ruledotherwise?MR. DREEBEN: Well, that's right and that'sbecause the court has concluded that there is no right notto be tried in the relevant sense without particularevidence that will be suppressed. What that reflects is aright whose remedy would be a right not to have theevidence used against them, which could include reversalof a conviction, so that kind of a claim is reviewable atthe end of the case.But taking Dr. Sell's claims at face value, he'ssaying it will violate my First Amendment rights and mysubstantive due process rights to be medicated, and thoseclaims are, in a sense, independent of the main criminalaction. Justice Scalia is correct that in a sense they could be viewed as claims that could be broughtindependently, but I think under the statutory scheme thatexists they are better brought in the context of thecriminal case, rather than through an independent APAaction or some other form of action.QUESTION: Well, I -- I'd be less worried if, ifall that was before us here is the up or down questionwhether you have an absolute right to refuse medication,and once that is disposed of, the issue goes away, butthat's not what's before us here. That is not the only th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC thing before us here.The -- there is also the question, assuming thatyou can be medicated, what are the criteria, and I assumethat any prisoner can make the claim, I have a right notto be medicated unless these criteria are fulfilled, so inevery criminal case you're going to have a pre -- withsomeone who has psychological difficulties, or who isfound to be not triable because of his mental state, youhave to have this preliminary appeal all the way up beforethe trial can even start. It -- it's not a one-timething.MR. DREEBEN: Justice Scalia, I'm a little bitless concerned about the practical consequences, althoughI share the view that the delay of the criminal case and,more importantly, concretely here, the delay in starting the medication is a critical problem that results fromcollateral order review, but there are two things that Ithink reduce any of the costs associated with permittingcollateral order review.First, if this Court does settle the fundamentalquestion in favor of the Government and determines that,on an appropriate showing that this court defines,medication for the purpose of restoring competence ispermissible, in the future, criminal defendants will notbe able to assert that broad, unsettled, and important th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC legal issue and obtain a stay of the medication order inorder to litigate it.What they would have to show is that the actualapplication of those standards to the particular facts ofthe case is incorrect. That will most likely be reviewedunder a more deferential standard. Courts of appeals canestablish expedited calendars to dispose of frivolousclaims, and can weed out those claims that don't --QUESTION: But it would certainly be a newexception to the collateral order doctrine, would it not?MR. DREEBEN: It would be a new exception asapplied to the particular facts of this case, but thestandards of the collateral order doctrine I think aremet, and there is --QUESTION: Let me ask you, if we reach the question of what standards to apply, it doesn't fitcomfortably in any setting with which we're familiar,strict scrutiny, rational basis test. Do you see this assomewhere in between some kind of heightened review, andif so, what case do you think is closest?MR. DREEBEN: Justice O'Connor, I do think thata heightened form of review is appropriate. I don't haveany case that has precisely articulated the correctstandard of review, but in all of this Court's substantivedue process cases, what the Court has done is balanced the th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC interests of the individual in his liberty, or in thiscase in the First Amendment concerns, against theGovernment's interest in achieving the objectives that ithas.QUESTION: How -- how do you describe theauthority of the Government to make this order at all? Suppose this defendant were under a voluntary commitmentin a private institution. Could you send your guy outthere with a needle the day before the trial?MR. DREEBEN: In order to render the defendantcompetent to stand trial, Your Honor, the Government wouldhave to have some sort of a finding that would justify --QUESTION: Well, you have -- you have this --this -- this case, let's assume it's this person, and onlywith the hypothetical alteration that I've given. It'sthis person, he's in a private facility, voluntarycommitment --MR. DREEBEN: Well, I don't think that thatmakes any difference at all, Justice Kennedy.QUESTION: All right, so what is the authorityof the Government to go out and force him to be medicatedso that he behaves the way the Government wants him to attrial?MR. DREEBEN: Well, the Government's authorityhere is the -- derives from the fact that Dr. Sell has th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC been indicted on serious criminal charges, and he hasbeen -- been found incompetent to stand trial on thosecharges. The Government will be completely unable toachieve what this Court has recognized to be thecompelling interest in adjudicating serious criminalcharges.QUESTION: Could you inoculate a materialwitness? You have to have a prosecution witness. He'sthe key witness, but he's incompetent. Could you forcehim to be inoculated the day before the trial?MR. DREEBEN: It's the same due process questionas presented here, Justice Kennedy, with the possibledifference that our interests may be greater with respectto a person who has been charged than with respect to aperson who has not. Material witnesses are held all the time without bail.QUESTION: I fully understand that, and I wantto know if they can be medicated and what your authorityis for doing it.MR. DREEBEN: Well, the authority would be anapplication of any principle that this Court adopts inthis case to permit us to medicate the defendant. As Iindicated, there is a distinction between a witness and adefendant, but here we deal with someone who has alreadybeen placed under indictment, which is to an -- a certain th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC extent a significant restriction on liberty as well as anindication of a paramount Government interest inadjudicating the charges.QUESTION: Well, at -- at the very least itseems to me that you should have statutory authority fordoing this. Just the court thinks it's a good idea thatthe witnesses behave a certain way and order medication --MR. DREEBEN: Well, I think maybe it's importantto back up and look at how this case came to be before theCourt. Dr. Sell was found to be incompetent to standtrial, and pursuant to statute section (d) of title, he was committed to the Bureau of Prisons fortreatment to determine whether his competency could berestored.In the context of that confinement at a medical facility, pursuant to regulations of the Bureau ofPrisons, the Bureau of Prisons determined thatantipsychotic medication and nothing else was the means bywhich the Government could restore him to competency.QUESTION: But that, that was competency fortrial. That's -- that's -- that's the -- that's not thestandard in the regulations, as I understand them.MR. DREEBEN: No, the regulations do indeedaddress the potential of medication for the purpose ofrendering competence to stand trial. That's one of the th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC criteria that is given to the Bureau of Prisons when itaccepts a patient for treatment under section (d), andthe bureau in fact made the finding that this was amedically appropriate treatment for a person who has theillness, the serious delusional disorder that Dr. Sellhas, and that this treatment had a substantial probabilityof restoring him to competence. The --QUESTION: Mr. Dreeben, can you back up just fora minute, because there's a piece of this that I'm notclear on. I thought that before the issue of competenceto stand trial came up, the Bureau of Prisons haddetermined this man to be dangerous to himself or otherswithout medication, and that the Bureau of Prisons wasgoing to medicate him under the danger standard.MR. DREEBEN: The administrative order, and it's the same administrative order that I referred to inanswering Justice Kennedy's question, Justice Ginsburg,does rest on both restoration of competency and to acertain extent on concerns about danger.What happened after the Bureau of Prisonsentered that order is not that it immediately implementedit and began to medicate Dr. Sell. Rather, it stayed theorder, and Dr. Sell then sought judicial review in thevery court that had ordered his commitment, which is why Ithink that it was appropriate for the district court to th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC hear this in the criminal action rather than under someseparate APA action. This is the district court that hadordered Dr. Sell confined.The magistrate judge determined that theGovernment had not made a showing of dangerousness, whichwould have permitted medication under Washington v.Harper, but that it had adequately shown that medicationwas necessary in order to restore Dr. Sell to be competentfor trial.Dr. Sell then appealed that determination to thedistrict court, which entered its final decision sayingthat the Bureau of Prisons could medicate, there was asubstantial probability of restoring competence, theantipsychotic medication was medically appropriatetreatment for the psychotic illness that Dr. Sell had, and that there was a reasonable likelihood of a fair trial,and any particularized fair trial concerns that Dr. Sellwas raising, involving effects on his demeanor, or hiseffects to relate to counsel, should be determined afterthe medication has been administered and it's beendetermined whether, in fact, he was restored tocompetence.QUESTION: Can we get your answer to thequestion that Justice Scalia asked Mr. Short? That is,suppose it is determined that he can't be medicated for th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC the purpose of making him competent, what happens to him?MR. DREEBEN: Well, at that point, Mr. Short iscorrect that under he would then be referred over tothe director of a medical facility where he would be heldfor confinement to determine, pursuant to section ,whether, if released, he would be dangerous to himself orothers.QUESTION: Well, all right, suppose he's not. Then he goes free.MR. DREEBEN: And --QUESTION: And the question I would like to knowis, suppose that you have a person who has very high bloodpressure, a defendant. Is it permissible, or clearlypermissible under the law, to force him to take bloodpressure medication so that he can go to trial? MR. DREEBEN: It is not something that courts ofappeals that I have seen have had to deal with, and thisCourt --QUESTION: All right, so we have exactly thesame question.MR. DREEBEN: Correct.QUESTION: And so the question is notnecessarily about psychiatry. It's about whether or notyou can force a person to take medicine that makes himcompetent to stand trial. th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC MR. DREEBEN: I think it's a very particularizedinquiry under the sub --QUESTION: I don't know why it would be -- itmay or may not be --MR. DREEBEN: Well --QUESTION: -- different with psychiatry, butthen the question comes back to, assuming we have theright standards, which are, I think you and the APA agree,the psychological people, I don't see much of a differencethere between you, the lower courts, and the -- as to thestandards if you can medicate a comp -- if you canmedicate such a person at all, and so what we know is thatyou can go to the person with high blood pressure or theperson who is seriously mentally ill, and you can medicatehim, because the Government has a good reason, where he is going to be tried for murder, assault, et cetera, allright.Here we have a property crime. Is this still agood reason? Suppose it were a traffic ticket? I mean, Itake it this is a person whom, in the absence of acriminal proceeding, the Government could not compel totake medication. Am I right?Now, I've given you a number of things. I'mtrying to elicit your views on things that are of concernto me. th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC MR. DREEBEN: Justice Breyer, the question ofwhat would happen if Dr. Sell were living safely in freesociety is obviously distinct from this case. There's noauthority --QUESTION: No, it's not obviously distinct,because I am assuming a person who is not a danger tohimself or others is, in fact, in that position.QUESTION: And it's not distinct because you saythe Government has an interest in having him medicated fortrial. I don't see the difference in somebody who is atliberty and in custody.MR. DREEBEN: I had taken Justice Breyer'squestion to involve somebody who's at liberty but notcharged with a criminal offense.QUESTION: All right, now, if you want to make a difference, fine, do it. I start out with the propositionthat a person who is wandering around a free person nowsuddenly is charged. Now he says, I have very high bloodpressure and I won't take my medicine, or he says, I'mdelusional and I won't take my medicine.If -- can the Government compel person orperson to do it?MR. DREEBEN: Yes to both.QUESTION: Yes. Where it's murder and assault,if they're about to -- a traffic ticket? No, all right. th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC Now --MR. DREEBEN: I -- I --QUESTION: If that's -- if that's your --MR. DREEBEN: Justice Breyer --QUESTION: Yes.MR. DREEBEN: -- the question that you're askingis, how serious need the offense be in order to justify anintrusion on substantive due process interests, whetherthey be through psychiatric medication or through bloodpressure --QUESTION: Oh, that's exactly right, that is myquestion, because I thought that's what was at issue inthis case.MR. DREEBEN: And I entirely agree that it needsto be a sufficiently serious offense to outweigh --QUESTION: What is -- what is the basis for theGovernment ordering medication in the case of high bloodpressure, where -- where I would think it doesn'tnecessarily interfere with your ability to make trialdecisions?MR. DREEBEN: Well, to the extent that a personwas making a claim that, I'm not medically competent to goto trial because I have high blood pressure, and if I goto trial, I may have a heart attack and die. Thisactually happens. People will come into court and say, th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC you can't try me now because I'm too fragile, I have aserious health condition, and courts then have to balance. It's essentially the same balancing test that's at issuein this case. They have to balance --QUESTION: Mr. Dreeben, can I ask you a questionthat I've been trying to -- thinking about for quite awhile? Is the amount of time he's already been incustody, as compared to the potential sentence he mightreceive, relevant to the analysis?MR. DREEBEN: It may be, Justice Stevens,relevant to the analysis to the extent that courts haveheld that the amount of time that a person can be held fortreatment under (d) cannot exceed the ultimatesentence that they would receive.QUESTION: And is that not true in this case? MR. DREEBEN: No, it's not true in this case fora number of reasons. First of all, even limitingconsideration to the medicaid fraud and money launderingcharges, the test is the maximum sentence that thedefendant could receive as a matter of statutory law, andhe could receive a sentence --QUESTION: It's the maximum sentence, ratherthan what the sentencing guidelines would provide?MR. DREEBEN: Well, this Court obviously hasn'taddressed the question, and it would be free to weigh th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC in --QUESTION: But if you assumed it was thesentencing guidelines rather than the maximum statutorysentence, is it not true that his period of confinementhas already approached that, that time?MR. DREEBEN: Yes, it probably is. Of course,he's also charged with attempted murder and conspiracy tomurder charges.QUESTION: Yes, but that was not -- that was notpart of the analysis, as I understood it, in the court ofappeals decision.MR. DREEBEN: Well, to be --QUESTION: It relied entirely on the financialcrimes.MR. DREEBEN: You're right, Justice Stevens, but to the extent that the question is, how long can theGovernment hold him for treatment, he's clearly indictedfor attempted murder and conspiracy to murder charges, andthe length that the Government can hold --QUESTION: Well, is it critical to your positionin this case that we take into account the indictmentfor -- for -- for attempted murder?MR. DREEBEN: No, because the Government'sposition here is that any felony case is serious enough --QUESTION: Even if the time he's already been in th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC custody exceeds the time he would get under the sentencingguidelines?MR. DREEBEN: Well, again, if-- if a court wereto hold -- it's not critical to my position, because myposition is, it's statutory maximum. If the Court were tohold that we're not going to look at the attempted murderand conspiracy murder charges, we are only going to lookat the sentencing guidelines sentence, and we are going tohold that he cannot be held for treatment longer than hisultimate potential sentence, then the Court would have nochoice but to remand for treatment of Dr. Sell under to determine whether he should be civilly committed.Those are questions that were never litigated inany court, and are certainly not raised in the petitionfor certiorari. What is raised in the petition for certiorari is whether treatment to render a defendantcompetent to stand trial on a nonviolent offense is asufficient Government interest.QUESTION: May I ask this other question, justto be sure I have your understanding on it? Has he or hashe not been getting civil -- getting treatment during theperiod of his detention?MR. DREEBEN: He has not been gettingantipsychotic medication. He gets --QUESTION: In other words, not getting th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC medicine -- I know he's not getting medical, medicine, buthas he been getting any other kind of treatment for hisailment?MR. DREEBEN: Essentially, no, and the reason isthat there is no other form of treatment, standing alone,that would have any likelihood of success with a personwith delusional disorder, persecutory type. This is aserious thought disorder, interfering with Dr. Sell'sability to rationally understand what is going on in theworld, and it's well-established in the medical literaturethat antipsychotic medication and nothing else is the onlything that may hold promise of treating the -- the ailmentthat he has. Now, the -- the --QUESTION: Mr. Dreeben, may I ask you to commenton this, on the question of medication? One of the arguments is that if you accept, for example, essentiallyyour standard or the psychological association's standard,in applying it, you cannot apply it, as it were, in gross. You've got to apply it with reference to the specificmedication which is proposed, and that was not done inthis case. I think the argument is, it's importantbecause the effects of the various possible antipsychoticmedications may vary tremendously.Would you comment on that argument, that even ifwe accept the standards, they -- they were not adequately th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC met here because the -- the order was not drug-specific?MR. DREEBEN: I -- Justice Souter, if a courtwere to attempt to make an order drug-specific for apatient it would be essentially ignoring the medicalreality of what this treatment will entail.Now, Dr. Wolfson, the treating psychiatrist, orconsulting psychiatrist at the hearing, testified that inhis view there were two particular medications, quetiapineand olanzapine, which were likely to be the most suitableones for Dr. Sell's case because of their very minimalside effect profile, that they would have a much betterchance of not inducing sedation or other side effects thathe might claim would interfere with the fairness of histrial.But he explained that he did not want to be locked into a particular medication because one of hishopes, as the psychiatrist on the case, is that Dr. Sellwould participate in choosing, if he had been told, he'sordered to take medication, which medication he wanted totake.This is the kind of interactive process thatdoctors and patients have all the time, and for a court tosuperimpose some rigid rule up front that establishes thisand only this medication can be administered is --QUESTION: Mr. Dreeben, isn't there something th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC short of that, though? I mean, we -- we are told thatthere are the old kind of drugs that could be injected,and the new drugs, which originally had to be takenorally. Isn't -- that distinction between the category ofdrugs, not the particular drug within that category, oreven a decision between something that's injectable andsomething that we'd have to force him to swallow, isn't --isn't that kind of determination something that the --shouldn't -- shouldn't there be some control over theGovernment's discretion?MR. DREEBEN: Well, I -- I think the Courtshould be very cautious about superimposing a judicialdecision making process on a --QUESTION: But just asking the Government toidentify that general class of drugs, not the court making the decision in the first instance.MR. DREEBEN: The -- the problem with that,Justice Ginsburg, is that the response that an individualpatient has to a drug is individual-specific. Sideeffects can be described in general categories, but nobodyknows what side effects will actually occur, or whetherthe drugs will be effective until they've beenadministered, and it is not uncommon for the treatingpsychiatrist to discover that a drug that may have awildly, you know, significant side effect in one th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC individual has none in another, and a drug that'santicipated to be entirely successful turns out not to besuccessful.One of the newer, new generation of drugs, theatypical drugs that have the more favorable side effectprofiles in general may not turn out to be suitable for aparticular patient.QUESTION: But of course, one answer to that is,this is sufficiently serious so that you ought to have tocome back. In other words, in -- in -- in -- the -- thepremise of your argument is that there's kind of aneither-or choice that is made here, medicate or don'tmedicate, but if the -- if the substan -- if a substantivedue process right is recognized, one question here is, howserious is it, and maybe it ought to be regarded as so serious that the Government would have to come back.MR. DREEBEN: That would -- might be true,Justice Souter, if the Government's alternatives wereantipsychotic medication and psychosurgery, so that thedifference was dramatic between the two forms of treatmentthat are being proposed, but even looking at the, at theclasses of drugs that are at issue here, the atypicaldrugs and the older generation of typical antipsychoticdrugs, there are very important and dramatic differencesbetween them, but they belong to a family of medications th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC that are used for treatment all the time, and thepsychiatrist's understanding of the various range ofeffects that might be achieved is not likely to beenhanced by subjecting that to judicial review, nor arethe potential side effects so dramatically different thatit calls for an entirely different substantive due processanalysis.QUESTION: May I ask you a different questionabout seriousness, and I think it was raised originally bya question from Justice Kennedy, and I'm not -- I'm notsure of the facts or of your answer.Should we treat this, assuming we are going torecognize it, as sufficiently serious that the Governmentshould have no power in the absence of legislation, and ifthat is so, is there any legislation that authorizes this? MR. DREEBEN: There is legislation thatauthorizes and requires the Bureau of Prisons to treat anindividual to attempt to restore him to competency once hehas been determined incompetent. That's what section(d) says. Now, it does not --QUESTION: So it's treat for purposes ofcompetency?MR. DREEBEN: Correct, and it does notspecifically refer to antipsychotic medication, but in, when this legislation was enacted, it was well known th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC that, for the kind of psychotic conditions that render adefendant incompetent to stand trial, it's antipsychoticmedication or --QUESTION: But you say the Government can dothis even if the defendant is, is not in custody, and justto follow this same point, suppose a defendant not incustody, at home, is undergoing a hunger strike and he'sgoing to die before the trial. Can the Government comeout and force feed him?MR. DREEBEN: You know, Justice Kennedy, I'llanswer that question yes, but I recognize that it involvesa very different set of considerations, because theintrusion through force feeding of somebody who wants todie might be considered to be a very different decisionthan treating an ill person's illness with medication that is the norm that's used to treat people with these kindsof disorders.QUESTION: But if -- but if your -- but if yourinterest is in making the defendant stand trial, itwould -- it would seem to me that you could per -- supposeit was for -- I don't -- I -- we could play with thehypothetical, and your time has about run out. I stilljust don't understand your basic authority to do this atall.MR. DREEBEN: Well, as a matter of the th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC organization of Government, this Court has recognized thatthe ability to resolve criminal charges through themechanism of a trial is a compelling interest inmaintaining social order and peace, and in order to trythese criminal charges, the Government has no option butto attempt to restore competency.QUESTION: What's the most intrusive thing thatit's clear the Government can do to get the defendantinside the courthouse door?MR. DREEBEN: Well, it -- it's quite clear thatthe Government may seize the person and hold them inpretrial detention, which is a --QUESTION: All right, physically seizing him,shackling him, I guess. Anything else?MR. DREEBEN: Not that this Court has considered, but this -- this kind of medication has to bejudged against the backdrop of the nature of the intrusionand the efficacy of the treatment for those people whohave this kind of disorder. Virtually everyone who iscommitted to the Bureau of Prisons' care for incompetencydeterminations has some form of psychotic disorder thatcan be treated.There are, of course, organic problems thatcannot be treatable at all, and there are other kinds ofmental illness that can create this, but the statistics th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC that the Bureau of Prisons furnished to us in consideringthis case shows that percent of the individuals who arecommitted take these drugs voluntarily.Of the remaining percent who did not, there'svery little indication that any sort of judicial reliefhas been sought through appellate review, and I thinkthat's because these drugs enable someone who has seriouspsychotic orders to be restored to a point of rationalitywhere they can make decisions about what they want to dowith their life.So instead of remaining incompetent and perhapsbeing committed indefinitely to a Bureau of Prisonsfacility, where they may be warehoused without anytreatment, or being released if they are not subject tocivil commitment, so that they don't stand trial on criminal charges and suffer essentially no consequences,most individuals accept the fact, particularly after aninitial round of treatment has rendered them competent sothat thy can understand the benefits of this, that themedication is the appropriate, medically sanctioned way todeal with the disease that they have.And when the Government has no mechanism toachieve its essential interest in adjudicating criminalcharges but for using these medically appropriate means,and it can show the, the items that have been laid out in th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC our brief of medical appropriateness, no less-restrictivealternative, and that there's a reason to expect that afair trial will not be precluded, the Government shouldappropriately have the authority to override thesubstantive due process interest that the defendant hasasserted and medicate him.QUESTION: May I ask one last question beforeyour light goes off? Under the statute that providescredit for prior custody, would this defendant's custodyin the -- count?MR. DREEBEN: Yes, it would, Justice Stevens.QUESTION: It would, okay.QUESTION: Thank you, Mr. Dreeben.Mr. Short, you have minutes remaining.REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF BARRY A. SHORT ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONERMR. SHORT: I only have minutes I need to use,Your Honor. I am going to essentially combine one of thecomments made by Mr. Dreeben with questions posed byJustice Stevens.Mr. Dreeben says there is a -- we are talking,of course by a -- about an individual -- although Iunderstand there's an overall concern about what theresults of this case, case are, we are talking aboutDr. Sell specifically, and the Government's interest -- th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC the Government states that they have a compelling interestin prosecuting Dr. Sell.Now, I do not believe the statutory maximum iswhat -- is what guides here on the thought of how long hasDr. Sell been in custody. Dr. Sell has been in custody,except for a -month period of time when he was out onbond, since May of . Under any way you calculate theguidelines, and I submit the guidelines is the only wayyou can calculate it, he has served much more time than hewould have served had he been convicted and sentenced onthis crime, and under these circumstances, I do not seeany compelling interest whatsoever on the part of theGovernment in prosecuting this defendant, Dr. Sell.Thank you.CHIEF JUSTICE REHNQUIST: Thank you, Mr. Short. The case is submitted.(Whereupon, at : a.m., the case in theabove-entitled matter was submitted.) th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC 