 IN THE SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -XJOHN M. LAMIE, : Petitioner : v. : No. -UNITED STATES TRUSTEE. :- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -X Washington, D.C. Monday, November , The above-entitled matter came on for oralargument before the Supreme Court of the United States at: a.m.APPEARANCES:THOMAS C. GOLDSTEIN, ESQ., Washington, D.C.; on behalf of the Petitioner.LISA S. BLATT, ESQ., Assistant to the Solicitor General, Department of Justice, Washington, D.C.; on behalf of the Respondent. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. C O N T E N T SORAL ARGUMENT OF PAGETHOMAS C. GOLDSTEIN, ESQ. On behalf of the Petitioner LISA S. BLATT, ESQ. On behalf of the Respondent REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OFTHOMAS C. GOLDSTEIN, ESQ. On behalf of the Petitioner th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. P R O C E E D I N G S (: a.m.) CHIEF JUSTICE REHNQUIST: We'll hear argumentfirst this morning in No. -, John Lamie v. the UnitedStates Trustee. Mr. Goldstein. ORAL ARGUMENT OF THOMAS C. GOLDSTEIN ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONER MR. GOLDSTEIN: Mr. Chief Justice, and may itplease the Court: The parties to this case agree on one thing, andthat is that section (a) of the Bankruptcy Codecontains a mistake of some kind. Now, we disagree aboutwhat the mistake is, but there clearly is one. The United States Trustee, for all of itsrhetoric about the statute's plain text, actually saysthat the statute contains two errors in two differentplaces, but the list of compensable providersinadvertently includes a reference to the attorney andthat the statute's so-called payees' list inadvertentlyomits the necessary conjunction or. We say there was a different mistake, that thepayees' list inadvertently omits the reference to thedebtor's attorney, and our reading of the two is thesuperior one. It is the one that's most consistent with th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. the -- the structure of the statute as a whole, with thepast bankruptcy practice, with the legislative history,and frankly, with common sense. QUESTION: Mr. Goldstein, who's covered by feesavailable for a professional person employed under section or ? MR. GOLDSTEIN: That would be an attorney who'sretained by a trustee, and according to the U.S. Trustee,it would also be an attorney retained by a debtor inpossession in a chapter case. The -- QUESTION: But not chapter . MR. GOLDSTEIN: That's correct. The reason --and let me take you through the statutory scheme, andperhaps I should take you -- everyone to the text, andit's in the blue brief at page a of the appendix. QUESTION: That's, obviously, of criticalimportance. One piece of background information please.Could the chapter court have authorized the debtor'sattorney to do this work? I mean, how does that work? I-- and I -- I do agree that the chapter -- the -- thedebtor's attorney really is often required to do some veryimportant things to get the chapter filed. But if the-- if it's an first, as this one was, could the chapter court have authorized the work to be done? th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. MR. GOLDSTEIN: According to the U.S. Trustee,no. Let me, if I could, just step back and put this incontext. This is a converted case, just like, forexample, the Hartford Underwriters case this Court had afew terms ago. And so I take it the question might be,look, if they were a debtor's attorney at one point -- andwe all agree that for the chapter proceedings, theyclearly were authorized to be paid under (a) -- couldthat authorization have continued? And I think the answeris no because at some point there will be a feeapplication and the fee application will be under (a),and what will happen is exactly what happened in thiscase. The U.S. Trustee or the objector will say, look,for the period that it was a chapter , there's a -- a gapin the statute. QUESTION: Even if you tell the court in thechapter proceeding, we're going to go to and we needthe debtor to do some work, the -- the court just has nopower to authorize that work I guess is your position. MR. GOLDSTEIN: Oh, no, no, no. Our position isto the contrary. The U.S. Trustee's position is that it-- they're without power. I think it's an importantpoint. We view the structure of the statute to operatejust as it has for -- the Bankruptcy Code has for th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. years, and that is, that the bankruptcy court is agatekeeper. It has to decide, in what are now the literalterms of the statute, whether the services of the debtor'sattorney are both necessary and beneficial to the estate. The position of the U.S. Trustee is that evenwhen the services are both necessary and beneficial to theestate -- that is to say, even when they produce moremoney for the creditors, which is the whole point, afterall -- you still can't perform the services and becompensable -- QUESTION: Well, why can't the -- I mean, theirargument is the trustee can do it. The trustee's objectis the maximize the -- the value for the estate and so on,and -- and therefore there's no built-in conflict there.Why isn't that a way out of this drafting mess? MR. GOLDSTEIN: Because there are things thatthe Bankruptcy Code assigns as responsibility to thedebtor, not the trustee. And second, the provision that-- and so let me -- let me separate -- QUESTION: No, but is there any conflict in thetrustee saying, look, you can do these things for thedebtor and I'll pay you? MR. GOLDSTEIN: Yes. Let me take you to therelevant statutory provision. This one is in the graybrief in the appendix. That's (e). There is a passing th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. suggestion in the Government's brief -- and, Mr. ChiefJustice, that is at a of the gray brief. It's at thebottom. There is a suggestion by the U.S. Trustee that ifthe debtor's attorney really needs to do something, thetrustee's lawyer will hire the debtor's lawyer, and so itall will work out in the end, and I take it that's a pointyou're picking up. The statute is much more limited than that. Itsays the trustee, with the court's approval, may employfor a specified special purpose, other than to representthe trustee, and it goes on to say, an attorney that hasrepresented the debtor. The way this works -- and we have tried veryhard to find out how often this happens. Mr. Lamie'sfirm, for example, has been doing bankruptcy for yearsand has represented the debtor in more than , cases.In that entire time, the trustee has hired the debtor'scounsel two times. QUESTION: Maybe -- not to -- not to be cuteabout it, but maybe those are the only times he shouldhave. MR. GOLDSTEIN: Well, we know that that's notthe case, Justice Souter, because the Bankruptcy Codedoes, as Justice Kennedy has suggested, give importantresponsibilities to the debtor qua debtor, not that are th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. distinct from the duties of the trustee. And let me giveyou an example of that. And so those are jobs that can'tbe handled by the trustee. They're the responsibility ofthe debtor. QUESTION: But is there any conflict -- anyconflict of -- of -- you know, ethical or quasi-ethicalconflict if the -- if the trustee says, look, theseresponsibility -- you've got to shoulder theseresponsibilities. It's very difficult for somebody who'snot a lawyer to do it. Okay, I -- I will employ a lawyerto help you. Is there -- is there any conflict betweenthe trustee and the lawyer there? MR. GOLDSTEIN: Yes, actually there is. The --the problem is that the debtor and the trustee sometimeshave divergent interests. That's why the legislativehistory to (e) says we want to limit the times that thetrustee will hire the debtor's lawyer. But -- QUESTION: Would you give me -- just give me anexample, a garden variety example -- MR. GOLDSTEIN: An exemption fight. QUESTION: -- of a conflict situation? MR. GOLDSTEIN: An exemption fight. QUESTION: Yes, okay. MR. GOLDSTEIN: When you're trying to -- todecide whether or not the debtor gets to claim an th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. exemption. And so let me give you a couple more examplesjust about how this operates. QUESTION: Before you do, Mr. Goldstein, is ittrue that in most chapter 's, this is an academicquestion because there's not any money to pay even the --any -- the administrative creditors? MR. GOLDSTEIN: Yes, but the fact that inrelative terms, in terms of the percentage of chapter 's,it's not that big a deal does not mean in absolute termsit's not. We know, for example, that there are at least, asset cases. In particular, we have complicatedbusiness cases. Hartford Underwriters, which you all hadas a case, is an example. QUESTION: These end up as chapter cases? MR. GOLDSTEIN: Yes, Mr. Chief Justice. Thereare a lot of converted business cases. Generally when webelieve there's going to be an asset, they are pursued asa 's, but lots of times the ability to keep up with thecreditors breaks down and they can get converted to 's.And -- QUESTION: Mr. Goldstein, you know, Congress hadthis problem brought to its attention a number of timesand -- and has chosen not to enact something, putting thatlanguage back in. That I find somewhat persuasive. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. MR. GOLDSTEIN: In all candor, Justice O'Connor,I think that's a point in their favor. It's just not onethat's going to overcome the other indications ofCongress' intent. So let me speak to that and then whatthe other -- QUESTION: Before you get to the intent ofCongress, I'm rather stuck with the language. I mean,what we'd have to do, in order to come out your way, is toread the words, the court may award to a trustee, anexaminer, a professional person employed under or, and the lawyer. Is there one case that you've found-- I'm sure you've looked because you're very thorough --in the history of the world -- (Laughter.) QUESTION: -- where -- I couldn't find any, butI don't know all the cases in the history of the world --where -- where, in fact, a court, when faced with adefinite list like this and unable to say, and other suchpersons or -- fool with the language. Maybe you'll thinkof some way of doing it -- where a court is simply stuckin words of insignificance that weren't there because theythought the legislature had made a mistake. Can you giveme a list of the most relevant such cases, if there aresuch? MR. GOLDSTEIN: Yes, and then I will come back th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. to Justice O'Connor. The point here is that there are a number ofcases -- and we cite these in our brief -- that theexpressio unius canon, on which you're -- to which you'readverting -- QUESTION: No. I'm not adverting to any canon. MR. GOLDSTEIN: Well -- QUESTION: I am adverting to the fact that thewords aren't there. MR. GOLDSTEIN: Justice Breyer, let me explainto why I think you are, and then you can tell me why I'mmisguided, I'm sure. (Laughter.) QUESTION: No. All I want is the name of a casewhere a court -- MR. GOLDSTEIN: United States v. Wilson. QUESTION: All right. MR. GOLDSTEIN: United States v. Wilson, andthen I'll come back to why I think their argument is anexpressio unius one, and then I'll explain to you U.S. v.Wilson. It's on page of the yellow brief that wediscuss it. The statute says that the court may award to atrustee, an examiner, or professional person employedunder section . I'm back on a of the blue brief. It th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. has a list. It doesn't say only, and there are manycases. There are legions of cases in which a list is notregarded as exclusive when -- I think there's apresumption of exclusivity, but when the contraryindications in the text or the history of the drafting orsomething else tells you that Congress didn't intend thelist to be exclusive, and this is such a case. The reason I cite U.S. v. Wilson to you isthat's a case in which the statute referred specificallyto the Attorney General. The Attorney General, before thestatute was revised, was supposed to compute the amount oftime that is given as credit from pretrial detention.Congress, as it did with section , rewrote the statuteentirely, and this Court said, look, we admit that thereference to the Attorney General is gone, but it lookslike it just got lost in the shuffle if we look at theother indications of Congress' intent. Now, let me just make one other important -- QUESTION: Well, you think this just got lost inthe shuffle? MR. GOLDSTEIN: Yes. QUESTION: That's why I'm asking you a questionthat I hope -- MR. GOLDSTEIN: Yes. QUESTION: -- you'll be allowed to answer -- th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. (Laughter.) QUESTION: -- about what about Congress'opportunity to correct it -- MR. GOLDSTEIN: Yes. QUESTION: -- which they didn't -- MR. GOLDSTEIN: Well, this Court has neverreally taken that view of subsequent legislative history,Justice O'Connor, but let me turn to the events. In , there were two bills that were proposedin the Congress that were a part of general correctionlegislation that had a variety of different provisions,including one fix for this one. I think the importantpoint is that at that time, the only case in the circuitsinterpreting the statute as it then stood went our way.It was the decision of the Second Circuit in Ames.And so I don't think you can infer from the fact thatCongress didn't change the statute to confirm the rule inthe circuits means that they intended to reject it. QUESTION: Isn't there a current -- isn't therea current correction -- bankruptcy technical correctionbill pending, and isn't this absent from it? MR. GOLDSTEIN: It is, but Justice Ginsburg --so now we have not just the failure to enact legislationexists, but the U.S. Trustee is relying on the failure toenact legislation that doesn't even exist. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. The point, I think, is that, look, if you readthe statute, if you look at it right now, it's simplyambiguous. There's a reference to the attorney that's inthere, and a reference to the attorney that's missing. This is not a case -- and this is absolutelycritical -- in which there was a reference to theattorney, there was only one, and it disappeared, andwe're asking you to read it back in. Our position is thatthe statute, as written, stands essentially in equipoise.The two references to the attorney in the version ofthe statute were inextricably intertwined, and so if youlook at the text right now, the fact that Congress hasn'tchanged it doesn't tell you anything about whether or notthey intend it to be in there or not to be in therebecause the split is almost even. There's one -- QUESTION: But now it has been called to theirattention and it isn't in the bill making other technicalcorrections. MR. GOLDSTEIN: Justice Ginsburg, I agree, and I-- I'm obviously not making this point well enough. WhatI'm saying is that the inference that would be normallydrawn from the failure to fix a statutory error doesn'tcut in either direction here because, as I began in theintroduction, both sides believes there -- believes thatthere's an error. But we both think there's a mistake in th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. the statute. The fact that Congress hasn't corrected themistake doesn't tell us anything about what the mistakewas. QUESTION: But, Mr. Goldstein, you'reoverlooking one -- one other argument I think. Beforethis statute was enacted, the Association of Bankruptcy --whatever the name of it is -- called their attention tothis drafting error and said we think it's a draftingerror. MR. GOLDSTEIN: We -- yes. QUESTION: And nothing was done. MR. GOLDSTEIN: Justice Stevens, let me put thatseries of events in slightly more context, and that isthat in the House, when the bill was not pending there,there was a hearing, and there is one line in a -pagerecord of just written materials submitted that says thereis an inadvertent omission. The -- the one canon of construction that runsthrough this Court's bankruptcy cases -- QUESTION: Let me just add one thought. Theysaid this appears to have been some minor drafting errors,including the apparently inadvertent removal of debtors'attorneys from the list of professionals whosecompensation awards are covered by (a). NACBA does notoppose this provision since it contains language and so th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. forth and so on. So they -- it's -- one can read that assaying even with the error, we don't -- we don't opposethe provision. QUESTION: Right. We actually -- thatreference, we do not oppose this provision, we believe, inthe context of those remarks, to be referring to theaddition of section (a)()(B). Congress in added aprovision that's much debated in the briefs about chapter and bankruptcies. Remember, this is the NationalAssociation of Consumer Bankruptcy Attorneys, and whatthey were not objecting to is the addition of a provisionthat relates to consumer bankruptcies. But let's be perfectly clear. The -- theUnited States has scoured the legislative record of thischange and has found one sentence in one House hearing,and it says that it was a mistake. The principle inbankruptcy is if there's a statutory change and it's notclear on the text or at least in the legislative history,it's presumed not to change -- QUESTION: But isn't -- isn't it possible alsoto read this as saying, yes, you made a mistake, but evenso, it's still a good bill and we think even with themistake, we're in favor of it, and then -- and thenCongress looks at it and says, yes, we did make a mistake,but -- but the -- our -- we'll stick to that decision th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. because the United States' position now is that that's awise -- the provision is a wise one? MR. GOLDSTEIN: It is important to note, ofcourse, that when the Department of Justice and the U.S.Trustee commented on the bill at the time, they did notsay that this would be the result of the statute or thatthey proposed it. But I don't -- Justice Stevens, I don't thinkthat when someone says there's a mistaken omission -- andremember, it's of course at the time when the U.S. Trusteesays language is mistakenly included at the same time.When someone says there's a mistake, that's a verydifferent thing from Congress -- let's engage in all ofthe false assumptions that people actually read this thingin the Senate and people paid attention -- that Congressactually acknowledged, yes, we're changing bankruptcypolicy. The standards for changing bankruptcy policy,particularly a policy as settled as this one, are muchhigher -- QUESTION: Well, are the standards for changingbankruptcy policy in Congress different from the standardsof changing other kinds of policy? MR. GOLDSTEIN: Mr. Chief Justice, theindications in this Court's precedents -- the answer tothat question is yes. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. QUESTION: And what -- what precedents arethose? MR. GOLDSTEIN: Those would be principally theline of cases that begin with Midatlantic. We citeseveral of them, Hartford Underwriters, Ron Pair, thatsort of thing. The Court has recognized, going back towell before the ' code and subsequent to the ' -- QUESTION: Well, but some of the -- theMidatlantic, for example, was shortly after the BankruptcyCode was adopted succeeding the act, and there, therewas probably a good reason for saying when you have thatsort of a comprehensive revision, the presumption is thatif something -- it's not clear where something waschanged, we meant to retain the old. But this wasn't thatsort of thing. MR. GOLDSTEIN: That's correct, Mr. ChiefJustice, but I think that the relevant answer would bethat Cohen v. de la Cruz, which deals with a much moreminor revision of the Bankruptcy Code than even this one,the revision applies the same principle and that isthis Court has recognized that the provisions of theBankruptcy Code are incredibly interrelated. There's alongstanding practice that has built up over time, andthat Congress doesn't lightly change it. And let me talk about why this would have to be th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. the -- QUESTION: At some point, will you go back to myfirst question? MR. GOLDSTEIN: Yes. QUESTION: I just -- you have just a few -- MR. GOLDSTEIN: Yes. QUESTION: I mean, why -- because I looked atUnited States v. Wilson. It doesn't seem like this atall. The statute there said a defendant shall be givencredit towards his sentence for time previously spent inprison. It's in the passive voice. It doesn't saywhether it shall be given credit by the AG or also by adistrict court. Well, obviously, you could read thelanguage either way. What I'm having problems here with is that Idon't see any way to read this language so that it comesout with your favor without putting in three words thataren't there. And I haven't heard from Justinian -- thetime of Justinian, a court ever having done that, and ifthere is a court that did it, it wasn't Wilson. MR. GOLDSTEIN: Okay. I think I'm respondingto -- QUESTION: You can have -- MR. GOLDSTEIN: I -- I think -- I think we havea new thread. Perhaps the best answer to your point is th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. Green v. the Bach Laundry, which is not a case that'sdiscussed in the -- in the briefs, but I will explain howthis arises. And that is, Federal Rule of Evidence said, look, if there's going to be -- if you're going toimpeach a defendant, you get to use prior convictions, andthe Court looked at it and said, really, it saysdefendants, and we acknowledge it means all -- you know,the plain language of that is all defendants, and theCourt inserted the word criminal and said from the -- QUESTION: Inserted the word what? MR. GOLDSTEIN: Inserted the word criminal. Itsaid that rule would only apply to criminaldefendants. QUESTION: But that's -- you're not missing --you're missing my point. There are millions of ways -- MR. GOLDSTEIN: Yes. QUESTION: -- to read language in a statute -- MR. GOLDSTEIN: Yes. QUESTION: -- so that it has a limited scope ora scope over here or only applies there. That's so commonevery day of the week, and very often I look at the policyand I see if the statute is possibly construed in that waythrough that kind of limitation. What I've never seen isa statute which you just can't word by -- read by limitingthe scope or saying other things like this, et cetera. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. MR. GOLDSTEIN: Right. QUESTION: I've never seen a court just takethree words out of the blue and insert them in that way ina statute. MR. GOLDSTEIN: All right. Justice Breyer, Ithink that I probably am not going to have a case thatsatisfies you, but I think that I can dispute successfullythe premise, and that is, I do believe that your premiseis that expressio unius applies. I promised I would comeback to that point. And the text says, the court mayaward to a trustee, an examiner, or professional person.It doesn't say to only those people. What I'm telling youis that the other -- the remaining indications ofCongress' intent indicate that Congress did not intend tolimit the payment to go to those people. And second, this is not a case in which only wehave a textual problem. Remember that the U.S. Trustee,just as you say we have to read in a -- a word, they haveto read out a word. QUESTION: Well, they don't have to read it out.They just say the word is superfluous. There's -- there'sno explanation for why it's there. But, you know, thereare a lot of statutes that have superfluous words, andthat does a lot less violence certainly to the statute toleave in a word that doesn't have to be there than -- than th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. to insert a phrase, which is what you're asking us to do. MR. GOLDSTEIN: I think you and Justice Breyermay be making a similar point here, and that is, look, ifwe had the text and all we had was the text, it would doless violence you say, and I think I can concede it woulddo less violence to read in the -- the word rather than torender the other one superfluous or read it out. But Idon't think that's the question before you because youdon't just have the text. If you -- this was all thatthere was, you could apply a canon like that one. Itwould do less harm, you know, the principle of sort of dono harm. But what I'm telling you is that there is anambiguity in the statute, that the provisions of thepayees' and the providers' lists are inextricablyintertwined, that the trustee can be paid for the servicesof the trustee, the examiner for services of the examiner,the professional person for services of the professionalperson. And then there's this gap for services of theattorney. There's an ambiguity. And so just like anyother case in which you have to resolve a statutoryambiguity, you look to other things. QUESTION: Why don't you just say the firstcorrection, which is -- or the first, in -- in your view,slip is the elimination of four words? That's really what th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. they wanted to do because that's the lead provision, andthen in the subsidiary provision, there's only one wordthat they left in. So if you -- just looking at thestatute, I assume you would say the lead provision is themain one and the other, the subsidiary provision, fourwords in one case, one word in the other. MR. GOLDSTEIN: I don't think that we have toget down to the number of words or syllables or anythinglike that. I think perhaps a more fair -- if we're --again, in the world of tie-breakers looking only at thetext, it's that the U.S. Trustee's position requires youto conclude that there are mistakes in two differentplaces, in both the payees' list, the missing conjunctionor, and the providers' list, the inadvertent -- QUESTION: But there were umpteen illustrationsof missing or's. I mean, we really can't put much weighton that. MR. GOLDSTEIN: Well, Justice Ginsburg, I don'tthink there's any greater canon that says we find errorspresumptively in second provisions rather than first ones.There are much greater indications of Congress' intentthan that. We have a lot more to work with. I do think I need to make two points. The firstis Justice O'Connor has, to some extent, focused on whathappened here, you know, what did Congress know. I think th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. it's important to recognize, as I started to say, thiswould be a change without any consideration by Congress atall. This statute started -- QUESTION: But how can you say that if thismaterial I called to your attention was called to theattention at least of the staff of the committee? Surelythe staff would have recognized that because I presumethey read it, and presumably they would have discussed itwith the Congressmen and said, do you think we ought tomake a change, and somebody said no. MR. GOLDSTEIN: Right, Justice Stevens, let medistinguish two different periods of time. I was about totalk about -- and we'll come back to when this -- thewords got dropped out. You're focusing later, and so letme answer your question with -- try and answer it in asomewhat different way, and that is, the only thing thatwas pointed out to them was that there was a mistake. Andif you look at the text, you don't know what Congress'intent was. Was it to leave the language in or to deleteit? Because there are two parallel, intertwinedreferences to the attorney. I had said that I would come back to the ' --the ' change. This is what the Fourth Circuit thoughtwas so important. That is, it mistakenly thought -- QUESTION: May I just get one other thought out? th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. What is the parallel provision that you say remains in? MR. GOLDSTEIN: That is the reference in -- I'mon a of the blue brief, U.S.C. (a), subsection()(A), what we've called the providers' list. And thisproviders' list parallels the one in section . QUESTION: Right. MR. GOLDSTEIN: Reasonable compensation foractual, necessary services rendered by the trustee,examiner, professional person, or attorney. So whathappened is that -- QUESTION: Why -- why couldn't that refer to anattorney appointed by the trustee? MR. GOLDSTEIN: Well, it -- as has beensuggested, literally it could. You could render itsurplusage or you could say it's the attorney of thetrustee. But a few things about that. We know it really is surplusage because there'salready a reference to the attorney of the trustee.That's the professional person. This was one of the firstquestions -- QUESTION: No, but it -- not -- the -- the --there's another possibility: any attorney employed by thetrustee. And that's not surplusage. You have given me areason why there may be a conflict involved if the trusteedoes employ an attorney for the debtor, but whatever it th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. is, it's not surplusage. MR. GOLDSTEIN: It is, Justice Souter. Thereference in this line to a professional person is theprofessional person employed under section . That'sthe trustee's attorney. The -- and the United Statesdoesn't dispute this. It acknowledges that it issurplusage. QUESTION: No, but if the trustee appoints anattorney not for himself, but for the debtor -- MR. GOLDSTEIN: Ah. QUESTION: -- then it's not surplusage. MR. GOLDSTEIN: I apologize. The trustee is notempowered to -- I -- I think I may have confused you backat the beginning of this. The trustee is not empowered tohire a person to represent the debtor. QUESTION: I -- let me -- let's assume Imisspoke. The trustee may very well be empowered to paythe person employed by the debtor. MR. GOLDSTEIN: No. QUESTION: That's a way of reading these twosections together. MR. GOLDSTEIN: Okay. If so, we win. (Laughter.) MR. GOLDSTEIN: And there will be an explanationto follow. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. QUESTION: I did not expect that answer. MR. GOLDSTEIN: Yes. (Laughter.) QUESTION: Why? MR. GOLDSTEIN: We all should assume that all --the answer to all the questions, if so, we win, becausewhat would happen is that, remember, literally thedebtor's attorney may be -- provides compensable services,and then the ambiguity that Justice Breyer has focused onand then you have is that we have the question of, okay,who -- who gets the money. Does it go to the trustee, theexaminer, or the professional person? So if the trusteegets paid for the services of the debtor's attorney --remember, this is a case in which Mr. Lamie acted at therequest of the trustee -- then the trustee has to turn themoney over. The money actually belongs to Mr. Lamie. Heprovided the services. That's how it would all worktogether. And that is, in a case like this one, where thedebtor's attorney acts at the request of the trustee --this case is your hypothetical. The money goes to thetrustee who then obviously has to turn it over theattorney. That's who would have the equitable interest init. If I could retain the balance of my time. QUESTION: Very well, Mr. Goldstein. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. Ms. Blatt, we'll hear from you. ORAL ARGUMENT OF LISA S. BLATT ON BEHALF OF THE RESPONDENT MS. BLATT: Mr. Chief Justice, and may it pleasethe Court: The Bankruptcy Code contains no authority to useestate funds that are held for the benefit of creditors tocompensate the chapter debtor's attorney. Before ,the code authorized estate funds to be used to compensateall debtors' attorneys, but the amendmentsunambiguously deleted the chapter debtors' attorneysfrom the class of persons eligible to receive compensationunder the statute. QUESTION: It eliminated them unambiguously Iguess from the class of persons entitled to be paiddirectly, but did it eliminate them from the class ofpersons who might ultimately be compensated, i.e., theclass in -- in -- what is it? Subsection (a). MS. BLATT: Yes. Only the -- if -- an attorney,including the debtor's attorney, can still be compensated,but he has to be appointed by the court under section and then he stands as a professional person that'sretained under , but that has to be retained under . QUESTION: So -- so the -- so the reference issurplusage in (a). th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. MS. BLATT: It's superfluous in this sense. Ourreading of the statute is the same regardless because theattorney is nothing more than a subset of professionalpersons. QUESTION: Yes. MS. BLATT: But Congress may -- it may havefailed to make a conforming change, but it's also possiblethat Congress specifically left the word in becauseCongress often uses overlapping terms to accomplish itsobjectives. And it was doing no harm there, and it wouldat least remove any doubt that even the debtor's attorneycould be paid as long as he qualified as a professionalperson that was retained under . QUESTION: But the word attorney in wouldthen have a different meaning after the amendment than ithad before because before the amendment, it clearlyreferred to the debtor's attorney, did it not? MS. BLATT: That's correct, but there's noquestion that the -- the code, as it now stands, has --omits the debtor's attorney from one of the authorizedpeople. And what petitioner is basically seeking, JusticeStevens, is a substantive enlargement of the code becausehe wants to do something, that is, receive a -- QUESTION: Well, he's arguing the word attorneymeans the same thing it always meant. In other words, in th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. . MS. BLATT: That's fine. The debtor's -- QUESTION: And you're saying it means somethingdifferent. MS. BLATT: It could still mean the debtor'sattorney, but there's no question in this case petitionerwas not authorized to be retained by the trustee undersection . The debtor's attorney is unambiguously notone of the list of people in (a) who is authorized toreceive compensation, just like a creditor's attorney isnot on that list or a debtor's spouse is not on that list. QUESTION: Why does it make any sense,considering that the code does give obligations, dutiesthat must be done by the chapter debtor? And some ofthem are pretty complex. MS. BLATT: Well, I think it reflects thefundamental distinction between chapter and all othercodes. That's chapters , , and . In a chapter case, the bulk of the work is done pre-petition. It'sadvising the debtor about which chapter to file, fillingout the schedules, telling the debtor what property isexempt, and so forth. And in chapters , , and , thewhole game is in doing a plan which is all post-petition,and the trustee and the debtor, the -- excuse me -- thedebtor and the creditors work together to figure out a th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. plan. QUESTION: But -- but why doesn't that help thepetitioner? As Justice Ginsburg is indicating, before thepetition is filed, a chapter debtor has to comply withsome rather complex forms, plus be advised of -- of hisduties and liabilities. Don't take assets out the backdoor and so forth. So there's a chronological problemhere that -- the -- the trustee can't appoint the attorneyuntil the proceeding is filed, but the attorney is reallyrequired to do some advance work. MS. BLATT: Justice Kennedy, there's no questionthat both before and after the amendments, chapter debtors retained counsel, but they do so in theoverwhelming majority of cases with a pre-petition flatfee, usually $-$. They pay their lawyer pre-petition. QUESTION: And that can be paid. MS. BLATT: Absolutely. QUESTION: That is paid the lawyer -- QUESTION: Is it established that's notavoidable preference? MS. BLATT: Absolutely. It's in the ordinarycourse of -- QUESTION: For current services? MS. BLATT: Yes. This is done day in and day th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. out. The United States Trustees have supervised theliquidation of a million cases each year. QUESTION: It would be avoidable preference ifit's too high, wouldn't it? MS. BLATT: If it's too high, but I'm talkingabout the standard, routine fee of under $, ifsomebody walks in because they've been overwhelmed bycredit card debts or gambling debts or had a divorce, theyneed representation on how to fill out the schedules, whattypes of property are exempt, and they retain counsel, thecounsel takes that money, gets the standard flat fee, that-- and all the services are earned pre-petition with oneexception. QUESTION: What if the -- what if the checkbounced and there's now been a conversion to and the --and the lawyer says, I ought to be paid for my work?On your theory, does he get paid? MS. BLATT: Not out of estate funds. He shouldprobably clear -- have the check cleared before heperforms the services. QUESTION: He clears the check. QUESTION: Yes. MS. BLATT: Bankruptcy counsel do this -- QUESTION: So you're saying at this point,regardless of chapter work, chapter work, no payment th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. out of the -- the estate funds. MS. BLATT: Not out of estate funds, but it's --it's critical to understand that in chapter , unlike allother chapters, the -- the estate is frozen at the time ofpetition. percent of all chapter debtors areindividuals. If they have a job or any post-petitionincome or there are exempt assets, they can use that moneyto pay the -- pay counsel to assist them in completingbankruptcy. And I want to -- do want to address one very --one class of very important services that came up that Ithink, Justice Souter, you raised, and that is when thedebtor and the trustee or creditors are fighting overobjections to exemption. They could also be fighting overobjections to discharge. These are serious matters whereoften the debtor is accused of misconduct and the debtorwill need a lawyer. There's no question that even beforethe amendments, the overwhelming majority of courtswould have held that those are services that benefit thepersonal -- that go to the personal benefit of the debtorand not the estate. And they would not have beencompensable even before , and if this -- if this Courtis going to take the extraordinary step of writing it backin, it will not affect those cases. And so -- QUESTION: Let me ask you about -- th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. MS. BLATT: Sure. QUESTION: -- a provision of the statute youdidn't include in your brief, or at least in the appendix.Section -- MS. BLATT: Yes. QUESTION: -- specifically authorizes thedebtor's attorney to receive a retainer, as I understandit. MS. BLATT: That's for the code as it -- what --this is a -- a pro-creditor provision that recognizes thatdebtors will often go to counsel before they filebankruptcy, and anyone, whether or not you seekcompensation under the statute, any lawyer for any debtorwho ultimately files for bankruptcy has to disclose theirfee arrangement, and the court can order the cancellationof it or return of the fee if it's excessive orunreasonable. QUESTION: But -- but if the court does notorder a cancellation of it, it seems to me that provisioncontemplates a payment to the debtor's attorney for hisservices to the debtor. MS. BLATT: Pre-petition. This is for a -- anytype of fee arrangement that's pre-petition whether or notyou apply for compensation. There are many cases wherethe chapter -- excuse me -- the debtor's counsel will, in th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. fact, be paid under , under , under , and those -- QUESTION: This refers to . I think applies to chapter cases. MS. BLATT: Right. Any -- any debtor. Even ifthere was an express prohibition for money for the estateto be paid, section would still independently operateto require the counsel to disclose his fee agreement. Itapplies whether or not compensation is ever sought under. QUESTION: Well, in section (b), it authorizesthe court to cancel it -- cancel the agreement if it'sunreasonable compensation. So it seems to me it appliesthat if the compensation was reasonable, they couldapprove it. MS. BLATT: Right, but that's -- that's pre-petition. QUESTION: Well, I understand, but the money hasto be paid pre-petition. Here, of course, it was, but hekept it in escrow instead of putting it in his pocket. MS. BLATT: That's right. So it remained thefunds of the estate and it had to be paid under and itwas -- it was not a question of . But the other -- other point I want to get backon why this serves reasonable policy objectives, not onlydoes the individual debtor have the ability to pay counsel th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. with either his exempt assets, his post-petition income,or a pre-petition flat fee, but chapter , unlike allother cases, it is the trustee and not the debtor whomanages, represents, and liquidates the estate. And thecode gives the trustee the explicit authority undersection of the code to retain counsel, including thedebtor's counsel, to take actions that further the benefit-- the best interests of the estate. QUESTION: But not that would assist the debtorin the exemption example. MS. BLATT: No. That's exactly right. If the-- if for some reason the trustee could not read anaccounting form and the debtor's counsel couldn't answerit, the trustee can go retain a professional person likean accountant, and if the trustee needs a lawyer to takeactions to further the best interests of the estate, it istrue that that lawyer represent the -- represents theestate, but there's no reason he can't meet with thedebtor and help him explain something. But percent of all chapter cases, there areno assets in the estate to begin with. These are the kindof cases I was talking about, where they are covered by aroutine flat fee that covers -- QUESTION: I really don't understand thatargument because this case just involves the other th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. percent, and there are a lot of cases in the percent,aren't there? Several thousand. MS. BLATT: That's true, and in those cases -- QUESTION: So what difference does it make that percent -- it doesn't make any difference. I don'tunderstand that argument. MS. BLATT: I think it goes to the idea thatgiven that there's a plain absence of any statutoryauthority to do this, the question is, is this some sortof absurd result that Congress could not have plausiblyintended? And in the percent of categories where thereare assets, Justice Stevens, the trustee represents theestate. He manages it and he liquidates it. And ifthere's money to be paid to -- for counsel and thecounsel's services are needed, the trustee can use thatmoney and retain counsel. At the same time, the chapter debtor -- QUESTION: Has retained counsel to do work tobenefit the estate, not retained counsel to represent thedebtor. MS. BLATT: That's right. And at the same time,there is -- QUESTION: Which he could have done before . MS. BLATT: Right. And there's nothing in the amendments that prevents the debtor from taking his th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. post-petition salary, his exempt assets -- QUESTION: Not if he's a company, as in thiscase. MS. BLATT: Right. In a -- in a company, YourHonor, it's important, Justice Ginsburg, to keep in mindeverything like objections to discharge, exempt assets --none of that applies to corporations. Corporations,unlike individuals, do not survive bankruptcy, and so theydon't have issues like exempt assets and objections todischarge. You have a defunct corporation that'sliquidating. And we think this case is a perfect illustrationof what happens when you have a case with marginal assetsin chapter , and that's usually where the -- thebusinesses with no assets or marginal assets go, ischapter . The trustee had ample authority to retainpetitioner's counsel, and in fact, what happenedultimately in this case is what -- the bulk of whatpetitioner's counsel was doing was representing the estatein a fight with a creditor and -- QUESTION: Well, he didn't have ample authorityto do it before the chapter was filed, did he? MS. BLATT: No. When the case is in chapter ,the debtor is the debtor in possession with all the powersand duties of the trustee, and it's solely the debtor. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. There is no trustee. The debtor has to take actions torepresent the estate. All that changes when it convertsto a . Then it's the trustee. The keys have to beturned over to the trustee and the trustee runs the show. QUESTION: But -- but I thought you indicatedthat the trustee had ample authority to hire the debtor'sattorney, and I -- in the chapter proceeding, and Isaid, true, but does he have the authority to hire thedebtor's attorney before the chapter is filed? That'swhat we're talking about. He doesn't have that authority. MS. BLATT: This -- I mean, I'll try to take youchronologically. The case started out an , and then thepetitioner was -- was retained under section , had aspecific order, and therefore was entitled to be paid fromthe estate. Once the case -- QUESTION: For work done from that time forward. MS. BLATT: Work done just while it was an .Once it's in a , all those duties ceased. There wasnothing for the corporation to do except liquidate andcooperate with the trustee, who had the statutoryresponsibility to represent and manage and liquidate theestate. QUESTION: Well, there's no trustee untilchapter , is there? MS. BLATT: That's right. Right. Once -- once th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. it converts to chapter , then it's the trustee's job totake over. And the trustee eventually did take over theadversary proceeding and bring the -- continue the caseagainst the creditor. QUESTION: And he can hire the -- and he canhire the debtor's attorney to do work in the chapter ,but that doesn't compensate for what -- the work that wasdone before chapter . MS. BLATT: That's right. QUESTION: The work that was done before chapter was compensated in this case. MS. BLATT: Yes, it was paid. There was $,of fees in this case and $ in expenses, and $, hasbeen paid for all the work in . And what will happen,if the Court affirms the Fourth Circuit, is when casesconvert, the debtor's counsel will cease performing workunless the trustee actually gets a court order approvingtheir retention. The trustee can hire its own lawyer toassist with its -- with -- with his or her duties and canhire the debtor's counsel for a special purpose. And thatwould have been like this case where there's an adversaryproceeding either by or against the debtor. United States Trustees have supervised andoverseen the liquidation of millions of chapter cases inthe years since the amendments, and it has been th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. their experience that the statute, as written, has notinterfered with the smooth functioning of chapter cases. QUESTION: Are all trustees in chapter casesUnited States Trustees? They're not, are they? MS. BLATT: None of them are. The United StatesTrustees supervise and oversee the administration of allcases under , , , and , and one of their specificduties is to supervise trustees, private trustees, who --who perform their -- their jobs and duties as trustees. QUESTION: Even if the Government isn't involvedin the case. MS. BLATT: Right. There's always a -- there'salways a private trustee appointed except in cases, butthe United States Trustees supervises and oversees, servesas a watch dog, looks at things to make sure there's nowaste, fraud, or abuse, reviews all fee applications forthe -- by the trustee, the examiner, the debtor's counselin chapter cases, and -- QUESTION: The bankruptcy judge appoints thetrustee. MS. BLATT: I don't know if -- Justice Ginsburg,I'm not sure whether it's the -- the bankruptcy court doesappoint the trustee. That's right. But the United StatesTrustees within the Department of Justice manages a poolof available trustees who can serve to be appointed by th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. bankruptcy courts. And so we oversee trustees and makesure they're fulfilling their duties. QUESTION: Does the bankruptcy court appoint aU.S. Trustee in every single case? MS. BLATT: No, no. There are -- no. There are United States Trustees that oversee all the regions ofthis country, with the exception of North Carolina andAlabama, and they just overview and supervise theadministration of the cases in the sense of make sure thatthe cases are actually proceeding through the court, makesure that cases that need to be converted -- QUESTION: They -- they do that without anyappointment by the bankruptcy court then I take it. MS. BLATT: That's right. Under U.S.C. ,it's -- it's a laundry list of specific statutory dutiesthat the United States Trustees have to comply with.Under the Bankruptcy Code itself, in U.S.C. , itsays that the United States Trustees may be -- may raiseor be heard on any matter in any bankruptcy case, andthat's why they've been in all of these cases involvingfee applications because in their view, given the -- thatthere's just complete absence of any statutory authorityto pay chapter debtor's counsel, they've been objectingto fee requests. The one thing I just want to get back to on the th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. statute is petitioner says that the statute is ambiguous,and we could not disagree more. There is no language inthe code that authorizes the chapter to be paid. Whatpetitioner has relied on is a missing or and thisoverlapping or redundant reference to attorney. But it'scritical to understand that nothing about the missing oror the reference to attorney in (a)()(A) affects thesubstantive meaning of the statute or in any way prohibitsthe Court from applying the literal language of the codeor requires the code to do -- requires the Court to dosomething the code prohibits. By contrast, what petitioner is seeking is asubstantive enlargement, and as far as we can tell, thereis no case of this Court's jurisprudence where the Courthas added back language in a statute and where -- in asubstantive way that Congress has specifically taken outwhen there's no language that will bear thatinterpretation. If there -- QUESTION: If you're through, let me just -- MS. BLATT: Sure. QUESTION: Maybe this is a little repetitious,but I want to read you two sentences from Collier onBankruptcy, the treatise that most of us rely on perhapstoo much in this area. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. After describing the Government's position inthis, it would represent a fundamental change in the law.The treatise goes on. Section of the code permits thedebtor's attorney to receive a reasonable retainer forservices rendered in contemplation of or to be rendered inconnection with a case under the Bankruptcy Code. Such aprovision would be superfluous if the deletion in section(a) is construed as excepting debtor's counsel forcompensation under section . What's your response to that again? You'vepartly responded, but I want to be sure you cover it all. MS. BLATT: This is the reference to attorney,the reference to attorney in (a)()(A). QUESTION: Yes. MS. BLATT: Your Honor, it's -- the -- the shortanswer it's -- it's in the wrong place. The criticaloperative list that provides the type of people who canreceive compensation is in (a)(), and the reference toattorney just describes the type of compensable services,which also includes paralegals, para-professionals. QUESTION: No. They -- they rely on section, which talks about -- MS. BLATT: Oh, I'm -- . QUESTION: -- that that's -- they say section permits all this, and they say that provision would be th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. superfluous if your reading of (a) is correct. MS. BLATT: Collier is just wrong. Theprovision is -- (Laughter.) MS. BLATT: -- on this point -- is that itoperates independently and requires a disclosure of allfee agreements whether or not there's compensation, andmaybe another way of putting it is is whether or not theCourt rewrites the code, is going to apply as -- as italways has and require a disclosure of -- of pre-petitionfees. QUESTION: What was the -- the fees that wereattributed to the chapter phase, when approval wassought, wasn't that under when -- there -- there wasthe -- the lump sum $,, and something over $, wasattributed to the pre-petition chapter time. Wasn'tthe approval of that under this section ? MS. BLATT: Yes, Justice Ginsburg, by both thebankruptcy court and the district court because theyproceeded on the erroneous assumption, as found by theFourth Circuit, that this was money that belonged to thelawyer instead of the estate. And if it had been -- andthis was an case. You don't see in chapter largepre-petition retainers like this because the chapter usually contemplates ongoing work after bankruptcy. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. But in this case, they did what most lawyers do,is put the money in the trust account, and it wasn'tearned -- it wasn't earned by the lawyer until theservices were performed. But the bankruptcy court and thetrial court proceeded on the assumption the money belongedto the lawyer, and so if the -- if the pre-petition moneyis money of the lawyers, then it's reviewed under . But then the Fourth Circuit said, well, no, thisis actually money of the estate and it has to be -- it'sestate funds. Those are held for the benefit of creditorsand there's no statutory authority to use estate funds topay the chapter debtor's attorney. If there are no questions, we'd ask the Court toaffirm the Fourth Circuit's -- QUESTION: Very well, Ms. Blatt. Mr. Goldstein, you have minutes remaining. REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF THOMAS C. GOLDSTEIN ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONER MR. GOLDSTEIN: Mr. Chief Justice, the reasonthat the U.S. Trustees are not finding that this ambiguitycreates a problem is that there has been a shift inpractice in those courts like the Fourth Circuit that holdthat you can't be compensated as a chapter debtor'sattorney under , and that is people in bigger cases aregetting bigger and bigger retainers. What's happening is th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. the scenario that Justice Stevens described, and that is,people are saying I'm not going to be paid on an ongoingbasis, so I've got to get more money up front. That can'tbe a result that Congress contemplated under the U.S.Trustees' vision of what Congress was up to -- QUESTION: But can't that be checked by thecourt under and say that's too much? MR. GOLDSTEIN: Precisely, precisely. Butthat's my point. What results is the fees are subjectto a Lessing standard. They just have to be reasonable.They aren't subjected to all the laundry list of . Sothe result of this change, if there was a change, wouldonly have been to decrease judicial oversight. Retainersare subject to less judicial scrutiny. The second point I should make is that don'tcome away from the argument that this -- believing thatthis case is limited to chapter . It applies equally tochapter debtor out of possession cases and chapter and cases for services that are beneficial to theestate, but not the debtor. The U.S. Trustee has alwayspitched this as somehow a case limited to chapter , butthat's not accurate. And the Pro-Snax case from the FifthCircuit, for example, is a chapter debtor out ofpossession case. Third, Justice Souter, I still don't understand th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. what the answer is to your reading of the statute. Justice Breyer, Justice Souter said, okay, thereare a list of three people who can get the check: thetrustee, the examiner, the professional person. Fine.But we also know, as Justice Stevens has said, that thestatute's reference to the attorney has always been to theattorney, the same reference to the attorney in is areference to the attorney. says a chapter attorneycan get a retainer. Justice Souter has said isn't theliteral language, if we're going to follow the literallanguage, that the money can go to the trustee, to which Isaid, and that's -- you know, the trustee directed Mr.Lamie to do these things, and therefore the trustee justowes the money back to the debtor's attorney. Thatrationalizes all of the text. The important thing then in deciding whether tofollow the literal text is, is there anything to support?Is there a whit -- a whit -- of indication in the historyof the statute that Congress intended to do what the U.S.Trustee has hypothesized? Is there a word that from to Congress decided to make this choice to eliminatefees that are both necessary and beneficial? Those arethe only fees we're talking about, those that benefit thecreditors. Did Congress intend to eliminate them? Isthere any indication of that? And the answer to that th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. question is no. And that's important because the U.S. Trustee isnot correct to say that when a chapter is initiated orif the case is converted, that the debtor and the debtor'sattorney leaves the field. There are ongoing duties.There's the hearing, the meeting with the creditors.There is the duty of the debtor's attorney to transfer thematerials to the trustee, to cooperate with the trustee.Here, there was an adversary proceeding. The trusteewasn't substituted as counsel for months, and somebodyhad to tell the trustee about that. There are realresponsibilities. And we're not talking about, in anyparticular case, a ton of money, but it is important. CHIEF JUSTICE REHNQUIST: Thank you, Mr.Goldstein. The case is submitted. (Whereupon, at : a.m., the case in theabove-entitled matter was submitted.) th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. 