 IN THE SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES- - - - - - - - - - - - - XJOHN D. ASHCROFT, ATTORNEY GENERAL, Petitioner : :: v. : No. -AMERICAN CIVIL LIBERTIES :UNION, ET AL. :- - - - - - - - - - - - - X Washington, D.C. Tuesday, March , The above-entitled matter came on for oralargument before the Supreme Court of the United States at: a.m.APPEARANCES:GEN. THEODORE B. OLSON, ESQ., Solicitor General, Department of Justice, Washington, D.C.; on behalf of the Petitioner.ANN E. BEESON, ESQ., New York, New York; on behalf of the Respondents., Inc. C O N T E N T S ORAL ARGUMENT OF GEN. THEODORE B. OLSON On behalf of the Petitioner ANN E. BEESON On behalf of the Respondents REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF GEN. THEODORE B. OLSON On behalf of the Petitioner PAGE , Inc. P R O C E E D I N G S (: a.m.) CHIEF JUSTICE REHNQUIST: We'll hear argument nextin No. -, John D. Ashcroft v. The American CivilLiberties Union. General Olson. ORAL ARGUMENT OF GEN. THEODORE B. OLSON ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONER MR. OLSON: Mr. Chief Justice, and may it pleasethe Court: The Child Online Protection Act addresses aproblem that all three branches of our national Governmenthave repeatedly and consistently described as compelling,the pervasive and essentially unavoidable commercialInternet pornography that inflicts substantial physical andpsychological damage on our children. COPA was carefully drafted by Congress afterhearings, debate, reports, and findings according toexplicit guidance from this Court as to how constitutionallyto address and resolve and deal with this -- this menace. The compelling need is overwhelming and is growing. Internet pornography is widely accessible, as easilyavailable to children as a use of a television remote. ThisCourt has noted, as Congress has, that immense psychologicaland immeasurable physiological harm is done. The -­, Inc. QUESTION: Mr. Olson, part of the problem is thatthe pornography laws that would apply to adult viewers don'tseem to be enforced very well, the obscenity laws. Thereare very few prosecutions, and yet there's all kinds ofstuff out there. What's -- what's going on? MR. OLSON: Well -­QUESTION: I mean, if they were enforced, a lot ofthe problem would be assisted. MR. OLSON: Well, it -- in the first place, JusticeO'Connor, while there may have been some lapse in -­diminution in obscenity prosecutions a number of years ago,the information that I'm given, and it's not in the record,is that indictments have been brought in the last years, have involved Internet. But the problem withrespect to the children is the material that is so widelyavailable on the Internet that doesn't reach the definitionof -- that is not as bad as obscenity. It is a wide amountof information. The legislative history described ,pornographic sites in a -- this is also outside the record,but if an individual goes to their Internet and -- and usesan Internet search engine and -- and types in the word, freeporn, I did this this weekend, the -- your -- your computerwill say that there are ,, sites available. Nowthat's available now -­, Inc. QUESTION: Well, how many sites are there availablealtogether on the Internet? MR. OLSON: Well, there are -- there are a greatdeal more than that, Mr. Chief Justice, and I don't know theexact number, but I believe the record, with respect to theChild Online, COPA, uses -- describes those numbers, but itis increasing enormously every single day, but the -­QUESTION: Yes, even -- even the , was at thetime this bill was enacted. MR. OLSON: That's right. QUESTION: So I'm -- so I assume -­MR. OLSON: And so the -­QUESTION: -- it's much greater now. MR. OLSON: And every evidence that's available tous, and I don't think this is disputed by respondents, isthat the number of Internet sites is growing upexponentially. QUESTION: Those figures include the obscenityviolations too, I assume? You're -- you're not just talkingabout sites that are affected by the Child Protection Act? MR. OLSON: Well, I'm talking about sites that -­that would be available to you -­QUESTION: Other things too, right. MR. OLSON: -- to you or me -­QUESTION: Right., Inc. MR. OLSON: -- or to a -year-old -­QUESTION: Right. MR. OLSON: -- by typing in the word -­QUESTION: Exactly. MR. OLSON: -- free porn -­QUESTION: Exactly. MR. OLSON: -- where there would be no screen -­QUESTION: Yeah. MR. OLSON: -- preventing the child from getting tothat information. QUESTION: Yeah, and my first inquiry was -- wassuch a vast array of sites. There are so few prosecutions. It's just amazing. MR. OLSON: Well, as I said, the number ofprosecutions are increasing. What -- what the -- what the,and United States Attorney manual asks United StatesAttorneys to focus on obscenity where there's evidence oforganized crime -­QUESTION: Now, you said free porn, not freeobscenity. MR. OLSON: That's correct. QUESTION: Presumably they still can't advertisefree obscenity. We -- we've drawn a line. MR. OLSON: That's correct, and I -­QUESTION: Then I don't really understand, but, Inc. there's a line there somewhere between obscenity andpornography, right? MR. OLSON: Well, there's a line there that thisCourt -­QUESTION: Pornography is okay? MR. OLSON: Well, this -- what we're talking abouttoday is something that would be described as -- and I'musing the term pornography as a shorthand version todescribe what was described in the statute as harmful tochildren. That's a -- statute itself refers to obscenityand material which is harmful to children. It then goes onto describe the category of material that is harmful tochildren using the language that was approved by this Courtin the Miller case, as modified by the Ginsberg v. New Yorkcase with respect to material which is harmful to children,which is broader than the definition of obscenity. The -­QUESTION: You're -- you're not suggesting that thefree porn site that you call up would not include anyobscene material? MR. OLSON: I did -- I didn't have time to go allthe way through all those sites. (Laughter.) MR. OLSON: And -- and -- and it's not a pleasant --QUESTION: I'd imagine you found some that it was , Inc. obscene. MR. OLSON: And it's -- I didn't. I -- thematerial that I saw and I think that the Court would see isthat the people that are putting in -- these are -- this ismaterial in front of, and the legislative history describesthis, the material which is obscene is usually kept behindso-called blinders, which do -- which is a very good pointhere, because the very mechanism that the statute requiresis already in existence with respect to commercialpornography sites. Justice Stevens, what the -- what the -- what thepurveyors of this material do is put in front of the screenprovocative material that we submit would meet thedefinition of harmful to children and make that available toeverybody to entice people to go the next step to use theircredit card or their age identification mechanism to go thenext step. QUESTION: General Olson, you said something that I-- I would question. You -- you said it's just like theblinder racks, but it isn't, because I don't have to give myID and I don't have to be concerned that someone will knowthat this person with this address and this credit cardwants to look at this material. You can -- you can -- the -- the -- the idea of the blinder rack is to protect thechild, but at the same time, the one who wants to see it , Inc. doesn't have to disclose his identity. MR. OLSON: Well, you're disclosing your identity,Justice Ginsburg, because you're standing there in publicexamining those -­QUESTION: How many people are going to be in thatadult store, bookstore with you, as opposed to giving yourcredit card number? MR. OLSON: What you're -- what you're -- whatyou're disclosing your identity in person, I -- we would,the Government would argue that that is more invasive, butthat nonetheless that there's some -- this is a counterpartto those blinder racks. In many of the convenience storesor adult bookstores or stores that you may go into wherethose blinder racks are, there are cameras recording the -­the -- for protection of the shops, for other reasons,recording the presence of the person. We submit that in theprivacy of one's home, use -- utilizing this informationwith the provision in the statute -­QUESTION: But the whole world can know about it ifI've given my credit card number. MR. OLSON: It -- it is a -- it is a crime underCOPA for the persons providing that information pursuant toadult identification provisions, it's section, subsection dof COPA that makes it a crime to reveal that information. So there is protection built into the statute that protects , Inc. the person's anonymity with respect to using that material,which is not protected. When a -­QUESTION: Then why is there such resistance togiving the ID and the credit card? People resist giving it,their credit cards, and I think the two reports said thatthat was the case, the reports on COPA. MR. OLSON: Well, some -- some people may. Congress made a -- some people -- there -- the numbers arenot quantified at all, but there is privacy protection. Giving your identity is necessary going into a nightclub,going into an adult movie, or going into a bookstore andusing this material. Some people may say, I don't want to,that's a price I don't want to pay, but it's not quantifiedin -­QUESTION: You don't have to give your credit cardto go into the nightclub or the movie. MR. OLSON: Well, you probably -- in some cases youdon't, in some cases maybe you do. I don't know if there'sa charge -­QUESTION: There -- there may be resistance madethere not on the part of people to stand in front of blinderracks or to go into those portions of bookstores that areexcluded, that exclude children because of the presence ofpornography. There may be people who won't go into thatsection because they don't want to be seen there or don't , Inc. want to be seen standing in front of the blinder rack,although they'd be happy to look at pornography if it wasmingled in with everything else. MR. OLSON: That's correct, Justice Scalia, andCongress acknowledged that. There's no dispute by theGovernment -­QUESTION: Did -- I thought that at least we havesome cases that -- that recognize that there is -- someonedoesn't have to come forward and say, I want this material. That was the Lamont case where the person wanted to getwhatever was being sent and didn't want to say, oh yes, Iwant to get that material. And Denver -- didn't Denver Areahave the similar thing that a customer doesn't have to say,I don't take that stuff off my screen -­MR. OLSON: In the Denver Area case, the person hadto make an application to unblock the material, that thatmaterial -- there's a big distinction in the Denver Areacase because there wasn't a requirement of anonymity and aprotection of privacy in the statute. But I guess thebottom line, Justice Ginsburg, is that, yes, we have toacknowledge that there is some burden that is imposed whenyou're required to identify yourself into the purveyor ofthis material, but that -- but you get to, you have theopportunity to do that in the privacy of your own home. By statute, a criminal statute protects the , Inc. privacy of your doing that, and the -- and the balance thatCongress struck, which is what this Court dealt with when itdealt with this statute two -- on two previous occasions,the Court did acknowledge that there's a compellinggovernmental interest here, and that significant harm isbeing done on a daily basis. The magnitude -- we point this out on page ofour brief -- that million children visit these porn sitesevery week, and that between the ages of and , percent of the children, according to the statistics that wecite, visited porn site inadvertently. It is very difficultto avoid. As we describe in our brief, the use of innocuousnames, I'd mentioned last time that I was here and it hasn'tchanged, Whitehouse.com is a porn site. Many of thesethings that the evidence suggest children visit and visitaccidentally or they're shown to by their friends, and thenit's very difficult to get off -­QUESTION: Mr. Olson, the -- the court of appealsaddressed certain principal flaws that it saw in thestatute, and I wish you -- you could address those. First,whether there material taken as a whole includes the wholeWeb site or -- or the article and so forth, and you, Ithink, took a different position in the Third Circuit thanyou took here. And -- and the second is this question of , Inc. the definition of the commercial use. Could you -- couldyou address those? MR. OLSON: Yes. We -- we submit, and Congress wasbasing its definitions on the decisions of this Court withrespect to taken as a whole, as this Court put it in the, Ithink it's the Kois case, K-o-i-s case, from Wisconsin, andthat comes from -- that comes from the Roth decision of thisCourt, the material to -- for -- for purposes of theperformance of this statute must be taken not only in itscontent, but in its context. Now, in many cases it won't be necessary to dothat, but something that might appear to be harmful in onecontext, if it's examined as a whole and it turns out to bea part of an art exhibit or a anatomy book or a sexeducation program, that would -- would have redeeming value. It's this Court's decision that it's the protection of thecommunicator that the material be looked at as a whole. Congress carefully built that into the statute, and yoursecond point, Justice Kennedy, is commercial purveyors ofthis -­QUESTION: Well, just -- but -- but before we leavethe -- the whole, what is -- your position changed betweenthe Third Circuit and here as to what we should look like,should we look at the whole -- are you saying now we shouldlook at the whole Web site? , Inc. MR. OLSON: You may look at the whole Web site and-- and -- and it may be appropriate to look at the whole Website, it may not be necessary. It may be in the defendant'sinterest. We're not suggesting that the whole Web siteshould not be looked at -­QUESTION: But I mean, how -- how is the purveyoror the -- the broadcaster supposed to know? MR. OLSON: The broadcast -- with respect to the -­QUESTION: I mean, if we can't define what -­MR. OLSON: Well -­QUESTION: -- what the whole means -­MR. OLSON: Well, this Court -- what -- this Courthas defined that. It is -- requires looking at the materialin the context it's which -- it's presented. In addition,in -­QUESTION: But it's presented on a screen. MR. OLSON: It's presented on a screen -­QUESTION: One -- one screen at a time. MR. OLSON: Certainly, Justice Kennedy, but onepage in a book is presented at a time, one book in alibrary, one magazine in a bookstore. QUESTION: Yeah, but as we all know, this -- thisis -- a book, we know about book, but the Web site isdifferent, and that's where we're struggling. MR. OLSON: Well, that's right, and we're saying, Inc. that the entire Web site may be looked at as a whole to seethe context in which the material is presented. These areprotections that the Court think are available and should beconcluded within the statute to protect the communicator. So if the communicator is accused of putting the materialout there that otherwise might fit these definitions, andthe person doing the communication said, you have to look atthe whole Web site, this was in an art gallery and so forthand those pictures were a part of that exhibit, that's a --that's -- the reason why Congress put that provision inthere is that this Court repeatedly said it was necessary toprotect First Amendment rights, and in Ginzburg, U.S. v.Ginzburg, the Court said the context might be considered interms of how the manner is being purveyed, is therepandering going on, is it being put out, is -­QUESTION: But that's not obvious in the text ofthe statute, because it says, it says any image, anyarticle, any image. Then it could be any image taken as awhole. MR. OLSON: But -­QUESTION: The question that -- that I have is, you-- you have clarified what the statute means in thisrespect, you've also said that harmful to minors, the minorin view is the normal -year-old, but the statute doesn'tsay that, and since we're dealing with a content , Inc. restriction, is it good enough for you to give a narrowingconstruction of words that are susceptible to a broadermeaning? MR. OLSON: The -- I submit that the -- what the -­with the issue of as a whole as a part of the statute, takenin the context which it is given, it -- it -- the -- this is-- this is part of the definition, which is on page aof the appendix to the cert petition -- that the -- thecontext of that is quite clear that the material is -­QUESTION: Well, three -- two -- yeah. No, it wasthree, wasn't it, judges on the Court of Appeals for theThird Circuit missed it? MR. OLSON: That's why we're here. But the -- thefact -- and I -- and I submit this. In the first place,this Court has repeatedly said, and it said last year in -­in connection with the McCain-Feingold case, that if there'sa reasonable construction or a narrowing construction towhich the statute is reason -- readily susceptible, theCourt will adopt it in order to avoid the constitutionalquestion, but I don't even think that's necessary in thiscontext. The contact of -- context of as a whole comes tothis Court from the -- comes to Congress through a series ofdefinitions and actual cases by this Court, so -- and thelegislative history is manifestly clear that what Congress , Inc. was trying to do in this pace -- case -- is to adopt these -- this Court's definitions of those things, and if I can -­QUESTION: Why did you -­MR. OLSON: Those were book cases. QUESTION: -- pick -year-olds instead of -year-olds if you want to use the old -- the oldest minors? Where-- how -- how did you come up with -year-olds? MR. OLSON: Because this Court -­QUESTION: And I mean, you know, maybe you -- youwon the battle by losing the war. MR. OLSON: Well -­QUESTION: You -- you're going to allow to come inwithout any restriction under this statute for a -year-oldanything that wouldn't be -- wouldn't be bad for a -year-old. MR. OLSON: Well, there's two -­QUESTION: Is that a great victory? MR. OLSON: There's two answers to that, JusticeScalia. As this Court has repeatedly said, the Constitutiondoes not require impossible definitions. What is -- whatputs a person reasonably on notice is an appropriate way togo, and what -- the -- the reason why it was rather than, of course, is because this Court criticized the previousstatute because it drew the line at a different age. It would be impossible, I submit, for Congress to , Inc. select a different age for every different piece ofmaterial. What Congress was trying to get at was the worstproblem, the material that even with respect to -year-oldsmeets the standards set out in the statute. That at least --QUESTION: How do we know that? I -- I doubt thatvery much. I -- I think Congress probably wanted a gooddeal of stuff that might be okay for -year-olds not to -­not -- not to be shown -­MR. OLSON: No, as a matter of fact -­QUESTION: -- to really young children. MR. OLSON: As a matter of fact, Congress was veryclear that what it was adopting is what this Court hadpreviously considered in the American Booksellers case andthose blinder racks and the -- and the definition that cameout of the American Booksellers case and the subsequentFourth Circuit definition of that term in that case, ofwhich this Court subsequently denied cert. Those booksellerblinder rack cases are exactly cited in the legislativehistory. This is a remarkable instance of where Congresswent through all of the things that the Court identified asproblems with the previous statute, grappled with each ofthese definitions, adopted Court-approved definitions,standards, and limitations with respect to what this Court , Inc. has agreed is a compelling problem. If I can return to Justice Kennedy's concern aboutthe issue of -- take -- the commercial pornographers, thestatute is very clear that it refers to people that are inthe business of profiting from this material, and then theCourt -- the statute goes on to say what is the business ofbeing engaged in this and says that someone that takes time,effort, or labor in the regular course of a business of -­of profiting from the transmission of this material. So the legislative history, the previous iterationof the problem in this Court makes it clear that whatCongress was concerned about and was -- was not trying tocapture with this statute the person that occasionallytransmitted a -- a photograph or an image, but someone whois in the business of doing this on a regular basis forprofit. QUESTION: Well, but the -- the doing -- the thisis having the whole Web site, and -- and I, you know, I -- Iconcede it'd be a very difficult task if we told theCongress you come -- you come up with some definition of thecommercial pornographer. On the other hand, it seems to methat this is very -- very sweeping. We -- even leavingaside the question of non-profit associations and so forth,people that have these Web sites will tell you that percent of what they do is for profit. , Inc. MR. OLSON: Well, the answer to that, JusticeKennedy, is the -- the fact that this is not any -- thatthat definition, what the Congress adopted at the suggestionof this Court, was the same definition that this Court hadapproved in prior contexts with respect to obscenity, U.S.C. , and that definition, commercial use ofobscenity, is something that prosecutors and courts havebeen dealt -- been dealing with for a couple of -- for over,well over a generation, for several decades. So -­QUESTION: Mr. Olson, may I ask you a questionabout the -- on the -- the meaning of this very provision? Supposing a beer company or a cigarette company used foradvertising purposes regularly used material that would fitthe definition. Would they be violating the statute? MR. OLSON: Yes, I believe they would, JusticeStevens, that if the idea is to sell -- to use the materialthat fits the definition, I keep saying the word pornographybecause I want to use the shorthand, and that is to makecommercial use of it by making money out of it, whether theysell -­QUESTION: Well, they're making money out of thesale of -- of the product, which itself is not pornographic. MR. OLSON: That's -­QUESTION: But -- but if it's regular advertising,you think that would -- that would meet it?, Inc. MR. OLSON: Yes, I -- Congress would not havewanted to create that massive loophole, because the peoplethat are -- this is a multi-billion dollar business, thepeople that are doing it would readily adapt to that type ofa loophole. The other one that was suggested by therespondents is that -- and the, and by the Third Circuit -­is that somehow Congress should have required that thiswould be the primary business that the person was engagedin. Again, that would have been a massive loophole subjectto constant litigation over what was the primary businessand whether a person's surrounded the harmful material withan acre or two of unharmful material. What Congress was getting at is that people thatare in the business, knowing and knowing the character ofthe material, two other terms that are in the statute, thatare making money distributing this material and who won'ttake the steps necessary to protect minors from them. With respect to the argument that the respondentsmake and the court of appeals focused on that blocking atthe home might somehow be a problem, Congress carefullyconsidered that, decided it would not be an acceptablesolution, except that it did at the same time enact -- thatit enacted COPA, required that the Internet serviceproviders make that type of information available to peoplein their homes so that that could be in addition to what, Inc. COPA requires. The fact is that blocking material in the home isboth underinclusive and overinclusive. It requires theconsumer to go out and buy a product and spend money toadapt it to technological improvements that are happeningall the times, and it's readily avoidable. I did the same,this again is outside the record, but I did this, anyone cando this, the same experiment over the weekend. I went toGoogle and I typed in disable filter and you push the buttonand you will get a screen full of programs that will tellyou step by step how to dismantle the computer so yourparents won't know about it. It is that easy, and you canput it back on. These things are readily avoidable. So the burdenthat Congress was -- was -- the burden that Congress imposedat the suggestion of this Court is to put the burden on theperson or persons making money on a regular basis from thisproduct to take the minimal steps necessary to prevent thedamage that's done every day by minors by allowing people touse mechanisms that are already in place. This Courtmentioned it and Congress mentioned it, this adult checkmechanism, that's another thing that -- that anyone cancheck out. Type in adult -- adult ID, and then press thebutton and you will find, I think there were sites thatmention in the congressional history which will provide an , Inc. adult identification at a relatively nominal cost, I thinkit was . for a several-month period or something likethat, and the availability is such that the steps that canbe followed take a matter of less than a couple of minutes. So in the privacy of the home, the adult who wantsmaterial protected by the Constitution, in order to avoiddamage to children in the privacy of the home with statutoryprotection as to anonymity, the -- the problem can -- it -­it cannot be totally solved, but this is an important majorstep and this is an example of Congress following thedirections of this Court as to how constitutionally to doit. Mr. Chief Justice, I'd like to reserve the balanceof my time. QUESTION: Very well, General Olson. Ms. Beeson, we'll hear from you. ORAL ARGUMENT OF ANN E. BEESON ON BEHALF OF THE RESPONDENTS MS. BEESON: Mr. Chief Justice, and may it pleasethe Court: COPA violates the First Amendment for twoindependent reasons. First, it is a criminal statute thatsuppresses a wide range of protected speech between adultson the Web, and second, the Government has a range of moreeffective, less restrictive tools available to protect , Inc. minors. The Government's attempt to narrow the range ofspeech that is affected by this statute defy the law's plainlanguage, the record, and plain common sense. Even under the Government's interpretation, COPAcriminalizes speech that under any definition adults havethe right to access. It criminalizes a depiction or even adescription of nudity or even a description or depiction ofthe female breast. It does not just cover sexual conduct. QUESTION: Now, I thought what it said is it picksup the definition that this Court has used for obscenity. Ithought that definition was primarily an appeal to theprurient interest and it cannot have any -- it has to lack,taken as a whole, serious literary, artistic, political, orscientific value, and it adds the word, for minors. For a- or -year-old, I'm not sure there'd be much difference. MS. BEESON: I -­QUESTION: And -- and so, I looked through all yourstuff, or not all of it, but some of it, and I'd like you topoint out for me, what is the material there that has thatserious scientific value, which you have quite a lot of -­MS. BEESON: Yes. QUESTION: -- but that the statute would forbid? MS. BEESON: Yes. Two points, Your Honor. First,the obscenity statute actually covers only sexual conduct. It does not cover mere depictions of -- of nudity and it , Inc. does not cover just an image of the female breast, so Ithink that that's an important difference. QUESTION: It has to be an image or whatever imagethey are that appeal to the prurient interest. Now, that tome is material that does not communicate. MS. BEESON: Yes. QUESTION: It is material that is looking for akind of emotional response, period. No communication andtrying to elicit a certain emotional response, all right? And it lacks serious artistic or cultural or other value,all right? Now, what is the material that you point to,because most of yours I think didn't fit that definition. In fact, I couldn't find one that did fit it. MS. BEESON: Your Honor -­QUESTION: So I want you to tell me which is theone that fits it. MS. BEESON: Yes, and, Your Honor, the questionultimately is what a speaker on the Web who communicatesmaterial like this will do, what they think is covered bythe law, whether they will self-censor everything they think--QUESTION: Oh, I would imagine it's what we say iscovered by the law. MS. BEESON: Your Honor, I don't think so, underthis Court's precedents. In other words, if the -- if the , Inc. record shows, and if the law covers, material that clearlyhas value for adults but lacks value for minors, there hasto be some distinction there or otherwise this turns intothe obscenity statute. There is no difference. In other words, there is material that has -­QUESTION: You're going a little fast. Would you slow down, Ms. Beeson? I didn't get your last -­MS. BEESON: Sure. QUESTION: -- clause. MS. BEESON: Sure, sure, Your Honor, of course. The point is that the serious value for minors clause doesnot protect as much material as the serious value for adultsclause in the obscenity statute. That by definition must betrue, and in fact, as a society, just even using commonsense -­QUESTION: Did you get my question? I wanted you,I was serious in my question. MS. BEESON: Yes. QUESTION: I want to know, I would like somecitations. You don't have to -­MS. BEESON: Absolutely. QUESTION: -- hold it up. MS. BEESON: Yes, Your Honor. QUESTION: But I -- I want to know what you think,in other words, are your prime examples, because I'm tempted , Inc. to look at them, and if I thought that this statute didn'tcover it, why not say so? Why not say all these things thatthe ACLU is worried about, given the Government's effort,are outside the statute? Would that take care of yourproblem? But tell me which they are. MS. BEESON: Yes, let me do that. First, there arenumerous discussions in the -- in the record of lesbian andgay sexual pleasure and the pleasure of sex outdoors. Thisis not sex education materials. These are materialsintended for adults which explicitly discuss sexualpleasure. Let me give a few citations: PlanetOut, in thejoint appendix, to ; BlackStripe, the joint appendix, to ; and the Susie Bright column. She is a sextherapist, she is -- she talks about sexual pleasure. Sheis not talking about educational material. The purpose ofher columns are to invite adults to discuss and to readabout sexual pleasure if they want -­QUESTION: Exactly, and I don't think that that'sprurient. I think a discussion about sex is a totallydifferent thing from a -- a discussion that is itselfsupposed to be part of a sexual response, all right? They're night and day different. MS. BEESON: Your -­QUESTION: Now -- now you tell me why that isn't , Inc. so. MS. BEESON: Your Honor, let me put this anotherway. This statute covers written text. All of the exhibitsthat have been put in by the Government are of images. Idon't know what else could be covered that is written textthat, you know, other than our client's material, in otherwords, what is left. That is what they are. They are -­they are prurient discussions, they are intended for adults,they have value for adults, but they lack value for minors. That is the concern. It's a very big concern. There are alot of people on the Web that communicate that. And as a society, again, there's a lot of materialin this, we have defined a wide range of material as havingvalue for adults and lacking value for even older minors. A-year-old cannot get into an R-rated movie. If you're aspeaker on the Web and you communicate material that's likeBertolucci films, for example, or Sex and the City, you aregoing to be very, very worried. The Government has madeyour speech a crime and you have only three options underthe statute. All of those options violate the FirstAmendment. The first option is that you can take a risk andleave your speech up there, Justice Breyer, as you'resaying, you know, leave it up there. You're Susie Brightand you think that your -- your speech is not covered. What , Inc. happens? You can go to jail, not because you made thatcolumn deliberately available to a minor, but because youmerely displayed the column to the general public. That isa pure violation of this Court's rule in Butler v. Michiganthat you cannot make it a crime to display material toadults in the name of protecting children. The second option. You're worried, you don't wantto go to jail, you self-censor. Everything that you haveself-censored, adults had the right to access. It violatesthe First Amendment for the Government to do this throughthe statute. The third option is that you can set up costlyscreens, which the record shows drive away your users. Thedistrict court and the court of appeals also specificallyfound that because of the risk of criminal penalties, it'squite likely that you never get to the defenses because thevast majority of rational speakers, when faced with thischoice, are going to self-censor, and that is speech thatadults had the right to get. This Court, for that reason -­QUESTION: You're talking about self-censoring. You're meaning an interpretation of the statute that is notwarranted by the -- the proper interpretation, I take it? MS. BEESON: No, I'm not. I -- no, I'm not, YourHonor. I think this is very different than the -- than that , Inc. problem, the self-censorship problem with the obscenitystatute, and here's why. Under the obscenity statute, ifyou self-censor material that is actually obscene, there'sno First Amendment problem. QUESTION: That's the whole point of the thing. MS. BEESON: Exactly. There's no First Amendmentproblem. That speech is illegal. If you self-censor speechunder COPA that we can all agree is harmful to minors,whatever that is, it's harmful to minors, you have self-censored material that adults have the right to access. That's the fundamental difference, and that is why thisself-censorship is problem with this statute is so muchbroader than it -- than it could ever be in the obscenitystatute. Now, you also have -­QUESTION: If -- if you run that self-censor, Imean, you -- you could not have any laws protect. I -- Isuppose the laws that require certain categories ofmaterials to be put in these, what do we call, the blinder,blinder racks, I -- I suppose that -- that's invalid on thesame basis because those magazines that want to appear inthe general readership rack will self-censor them -­themselves so that they won't be put in there, right? Soall of those, and I think every state has laws like that,they're all invalid because of self-censorship? , Inc. MS. BEESON: Your Honor, we think that -- first ofall, this Court has never upheld an -- a harmful to minorsdisplay statute, and in fact -­QUESTION: I understand we haven't, but what --what's your view? The argument you're making suggests thatthey're all bad. MS. BEESON: We think that that is one of the threeFirst Amendment burdens that these kinds of statutes impose. The first one is the self-censorship problem. The secondone -­QUESTION: All right. But that alone is notenough, you think? MS. BEESON: We think that it would be enough -­QUESTION: Okay. MS. BEESON: -- but the point is under COPA -­QUESTION: Then all the blinder racks are bad? MS. BEESON: And under -- under this law -- underthis law, Your -- Your Honor, there are two additionalburdens which are much greater than the online blinder rackstatutes, and in fact, it's quite notable that even thoughsome states, it's about half of the states that have displaystatutes as opposed to statutes like Ginsberg that make it acrime to simply sell directly to a child material that'sharmful to minors, those same states that have passed and insome cases upheld offline display statutes have now struck, Inc. down online display statutes because they have reached thesame conclusion that the district court and the appellatecourt in this case found and that is that there is -­QUESTION: Well, their supreme courts did, theirsupreme courts did. I mean, don't represent it as ajudgment of the people of the states by their legislature. You're saying that -- that there were state supreme courtsthat struck it down, right? MS. BEESON: I'm saying that there are -- therewere Federal courts that have struck down now seven stateonline harmful to minor statutes because they haverecognized the distinction between those statutes in theonline context and the offline context, and let me just getto that second problem, you know, self-censorship being thefirst problem, self-censorship of speech that under anydefinition is protected for adults. The second one, the -- let's just assume that you-- that you want to go ahead and try to set up thesescreens, first of all, a credit card is a form of payment,it is not an ID. This is not just a matter of flashing yourID if you're a young-looking adult and the bookstore owneris not quite sure that you're -- you're an adult yet. Thisis a matter of every single adult having to -- to providetheir credit card to a Web site every time they visit a newWeb site. The -­ , Inc. QUESTION: But there's a -- there's an alternative,the ID, you -- it doesn't have to be a credit card. MS. BEESON: Your Honor, there is an alternative inthe statute. What the record shows is that to get an adultID, the primary way to get that is through a credit card. So another problem you have very similar to the problemidentified by this Court in Reno v. ACLU is that, you know,almost all adults without credit cards have no way to accessthis speech at all, and again, you don't even -- you don'teven get to this problem if, of course, the Web speaker haschosen the first option and has self-censored and not eventried to set up the screens. So the other -- the -- the other thing that's verydifferent, of course, about the blinder rack statutes isthat none of them required the adults to actually registeror disclose their identity. Credit cards create a permanenttransaction, a permanent record of the transaction, and the-- the potential for abuse, because they are a form ofpayment, is much greater than merely flashing an ID. QUESTION: Yes, but the Government says thatthere's a statutory protection that they cannot -- that the-- the person who gets the information can't pass it on tothird parties. MS. BEESON: Your Honor, there was actually -­there actually was a similar protection in the Denver Area, Inc. case, which this Court found irrelevant given the remainingburden on -- on adults having to identify themselves beforethey seek access. In both the Denver Area case and in thePlayboy case, this course -- Court -- struck down verysimilar burdens on adult speech. The burden here is muchgreater because the quantity and diversity of speechaffected is much greater and the number of users affected isgreater. I would also like to point out that there's -­QUESTION: Well -­MS. BEESON: -- loophole in that privacyprotection, which is -- which is right in the -­QUESTION: Well, who -- who says that they'reguaranteed anonymity? I mean, if you go buy a gun, you'recertainly not guaranteed anonymity. MS. BEESON: Your Honor, the anonymity -- thereactually -- this Court has held, of course, that there is aright to access --QUESTION: When -- what -­MS. BEESON: -- protected speech anonymously, butthat is not really what's at issue here. What's at issue iswhat the effect of the law is on protected speech foradults, and what the anonymity cases show is that if youhave to give up your anonymity, a lot of people are going tobe deterred, and that's what the record in this case shows , Inc. too. General Olson acted as if there was nothing in therecord about the number of times. In fact, there is quite alot in the record. QUESTION: Well, you -- you say you're not relyingon what you refer to as anonymity cases for thisproposition? MS. BEESON: I'm saying that I think that thosecases are relevant only to the extent that they show thatanonymity often deters -- that the -- the loss of anonymitywill deter viewers. Here there is evidence, and it isn'teven just the -- the loss of anonymity that's the problem,it's also the stigma of being associated with materialthat's been labeled by the Government as illegal, and thatwas a stigma that the Court also found relevant in strikingdown the Denver Area case. I wanted to just quick -­QUESTION: If -- if it really -- if it really wereillegal, then the stigma would be irrelevant, don't youthink? MS. BEESON: The -- the -- if it were illegal to? QUESTION: Suppose you were stigmatized by havingsubscribed to poor -- to obscenity. You couldn't object tothat. MS. BEESON: No, no, no. But here, again, the -­ , Inc. the speech is protected for adults. They have the right toaccess as -- as the Court held in Lamont and in Denver Areaand in Playboy. QUESTION: Now, you have a third -- the thirdpoint. The first is there's too great a risk of self-censorship. The second is a screening requires loss ofanonymity, and what's the third? MS. BEESON: The -- the third was the four -- firstpoint I made, Your Honor, which is that if you -- thedefenses don't help you at all if you take a risk and -- andassume that your speech is protected and in fact theGovernment thinks it isn't. You know, you're Susie Bright,you put the column up, you think it's, you know, you thinkit's okay. The defenses don't help you and you're going tojail, not because you gave it deliberately to a child, butbecause you displayed it to an adult. QUESTION: Well, that seems to me just really much,very much like the point that -- that the statute sweeps toobroadly, there's a risk of too great self-censorship. That's really the same point, isn't it? MS. BEESON: Your Honor, I -- I don't think it isthe same point. I really think it's a -- it's a verydistinct point, because the point is the speaker has twochoices. They can either take a risk and display thespeech, in which case they go to jail. They go to jail not , Inc. because they gave it to a child, that's the only kind of astatute this Court has upheld. That's the -- that's whatthey upheld in Ginsberg is that you can make it a crime todeliberately sell this material to the child. All the -­all the -- all the Web publisher has done under this statutethat sends him to jail is to simply make it available to thegeneral reading public. QUESTION: All right. Suppose -- what in youropinion is the right way for Congress to go about this? That is, I assume, and you may not assume, but assume withme that Congress is not interested in Susie Bright. That'sall fine. They're not really interested in your examples. What they're interested in are -- is the professionalpornographer and we know who that is and we know what itlooks like, and it's too tough to go after them with theobscenity statutes because they say artistic, whatever itis, there's a set of reasons that hasn't been successful. So here's their solution. It's called zoning. Wewon't stop people from looking at the worst stuff if theywant to and if they're adults, but you have to take thesubway and go out of Times Square, of if you're on theInternet, you have to identify that you're not a child. Now, we know that's a burden, but it's far more consistentwith the First Amendment to let people look at anything theywant including this worst possible stuff, as long as they're , Inc. not hurting anybody else, and the way to deal with this isto zone just like we use to do in libraries. If you want tosee the stuff that's locked up, you have to go to thelibrarian and identify yourself and show you're not a childand she'll open it with a key, that used to happen, and youcould go look at it, all right? That's Congress' solution. Now, if that is not agood solution, what is? Is there no solution? MS. BEESON: Yes, there are a number of solutionswhich Congress has now passed which don't present the -- theproblems that this statute does. This is not a zoningstatute, it's a criminal statute, and because it's acriminal statute it's far more likely to lead to the self-censorship that -- that causes the big problem here. We now have a Federal filtering law that thisCourt upheld, so any child that's accessing the Internet ina school or a public library has already -- is protectedfrom most of these images. One of the most -- one of theimportant cites in the record that I want to mention here,the Government put in more exhibits -­QUESTION: Your organization didn't -- didn'tsupport that -- that statute. MS. BEESON: I'm sorry. (Laughter.) MS. BEESON: Yeah. , Inc. QUESTION: Also, what else, because as you knowfrom things I've written, I'm very skeptical about theability of filtering to deal with millions of families wherethere are no parents at home during the day and it's verytough. So -- so that's one. I'll look at that. What's --what's two? MS. BEESON: If I could just mention the cite tothe record, Your Honor, because I think it's very important. The Government put in a lot of sexually explicit images astheir exhibits in this case. They stipulated that every oneof the major filtering products blocked every one of theimages that they submitted as being a problem in this case. QUESTION: Where's that at in the record? MS. BEESON: That is in the joint appendixbeginning at page , that's the joint stipulation betweenthe parties, numbers to . That is a pretty ringingendorsement for filtering software, and again, the districtcourt specifically found -­QUESTION: If it's working what do you do about theSolicitor General's contention that it's easy to turn thefilters off? MS. BEESON: Your Honor, first of all, that is notin the record. What the record shows and what the districtcourt found was that the filters are more effective thanCOPA, and the reason that they're more effective -­, Inc. QUESTION: When they're working. Do -- do youcontend -- I mean, if -- if we're uncertain whether it'seasy to turn them off or not, let's assume it's not in therecord. I -- it seems to me it's not a good argument onyour part unless -- unless you maintain, and perhaps canshow from the record, that it is -- it is not easy to turnthem off. MS. BEESON: Your -- Your Honor, under this Court'slong-standing precedents, any content-based regulation ofspeech is presumptively invalid. It is the Government'sburden to show that there is no less restrictivealternative, and they did not meet this burden under theclear record in this case. The district court very clearlyfound that the filters were at least as effective. They canactually block material that is not even commercial thatcomes from -­QUESTION: When working, when working -­MS. BEESON: -- foreign Web sites. QUESTION: When working. The district court didn'tmake any finding -­MS. BEESON: But -­QUESTION: -- about how easy it is to disable them,did it? MS. BEESON: Because the Government didn't put onany evidence, which is why he said he had to go outside the, Inc. record to make that point, when we have only the record to -- to base the decision on here. Justice Breyer, to get tothe other options that are available, the other things thatCongress can do, one that I want to mention is a new statutethat was passed, U.S.C. -- I believe it's (b) -- itgets at the Whitehouse.com problem. This is a law thatpenalizes sites that knowingly use misleading domain names,like Whitehouse.com, in order to lure children to this sitesinadvertently. That is another law -­QUESTION: Statute -- has that statute beenchallenged yet? MS. BEESON: That -- that statute has not beenchallenged. It is on the books now, and -- and therefore itis -­QUESTION: You think that's a good one, though? MS. BEESON: It is certainly narrower, Your Honor,than this statute. QUESTION: I understand that, but you think it'sgood, so we can count on the fact that that one's okay? (Laughter.) MS. BEESON: I will argue only that it's -­QUESTION: You will demur. MS. BEESON: -- clearly narrower. And one of thereasons that it's narrower, all -- all jokes aside, isbecause it gets more clearly at -- at what the statute is , Inc. aiming to get at, which is, you know, luring inadvertentviewers, especially minors, to particular sites, whereasthis -- this law makes it a crime for anyone, any individualrunning a small business, you know, Mitch Tepper, our clientwho runs a sexual health network -­QUESTION: No, no, I understand it's a lotnarrower. I've got -- I agree with you about that. I justwant to be sure you don't stop before I've listed all thealternatives that you think are possible. MS. BEESON: Yes, Your Honor, and thank you forreturning me to my -- to my task there. Another one is alaw that was passed the same time that COPA was passed -­passed, which requires Internet service providers to giveall customers information about their filters. Another misconception I think left by GeneralOlson, you don't have to go out and buy another product. The record shows that all of the major filtering, all of themajor Internet service providers provide these parentalcontrols as a -- as a default for parents. When you -- whenyou set up your account with AOL, it asks you right then andthere, you don't have to pay extra, whether you want toinstall the parental controls. There is also a new law -­QUESTION: But why did Congress not think thesewere adequate? I can't understand it. I mean, if that's so , Inc. obvious, why -- why didn't Congress see that, that obviousfact? MS. BEESON: Your Honor, part of the problem, ofcourse, is that most of these laws that I'm mentioning werepassed after COPA was passed. COPA was passed very early onin this debate when the Internet was not as well understoodas it is now. Frankly, the -- the solutions that it hasthought up since then have been better, they've beennarrower, and they have had less -­QUESTION: Screening existed. They certainly had,you know, you're relying heavily on that. Those -- thosetechnologies existed and Congress surely considered them andthought it was inadequate for some reason. MS. BEESON: Your Honor, the record in the caseshows that it's at least as adequate and where, as here,there's a record that shows that there is a broad chillingeffect on protected speech for adults because this is acriminal statute, those -- those tools are -- are -­QUESTION: But you're back to your first point now. I've got down filters, I understand that, and I've got thedomain names, and I want to know if there's anything else. MS. BEESON: Yes. There are two other points Iwould like to make on that. One is there's -- Congress hasnow created something called the Dot Kids domain, which is asafe environment in which there are sites that are reviewed , Inc. that are intended just for children. That Dot Kids domaincan interact with the filters in a way that allows a parentto set up the AOL account, for example, so that theiryounger child has access only to the sites in the Dot Kidsdomain. QUESTION: What -- what are -- what are the agelimits that are -- are specified there? Is there somethingfor the -, -year-old group and then up to the -, -,-year-old group? MS. BEESON: Your Honor, I believe, I don't havethat statute in front of me, but I believe that that -- thatthe idea is to set up a safe environment for children andunder, that that -- that's the way that -- that it's definedthere. And then finally, of course, as we mentioned,vigorous enforcement of the obscenity law could solve someof these problems. The Government has not been doing that,and I think that before -­QUESTION: But that, of course, in a sense iscontrary to the -- I mean, from a First Amendment point ofview, isn't it preferable to draw obscenity prosecutionlines favorably towards free speech? And that's -- Imention that because that seems to me the basic FirstAmendment dilemma that I am having, that it is actuallypreferable to lean in the direction of letting the adults goand see anything they want, virtually anything. But that , Inc. means that there'd be some burden attached, and the burdenthat's attached is the key to the spot -- locked room in thelibrary, the taking New York Times -- Times Square andmoving it out to Yonkers and some place, and here that youhave to identify yourself as an adult. That's the true dilemma I'm having, so when yousuddenly say, oh well, let's, you know, launch a crusadeagainst the obscenity, from a First Amendment perspective,that might be worse. So what do you think? MS. BEESON: Your Honor, obscenity -­QUESTION: You don't really want that anyway, doyou? MS. BEESON: Obscenity is by definition speech thatis not protected by the First Amendment. QUESTION: Yes, but there are a lot of hard linesin this area, and a set of prosecutors -­MS. BEESON: There -­QUESTION: -- who are now determined to go, to -­to -- to crusade in this area could draw a lot of thoselines differently from say you would. MS. BEESON: Well, and I -- and I, of course, amnot trying to say that those prosecutions wouldn't everraise a First Amendment issue. Of course they would -- theywould. But this statute raises a First Amendment questionin every single application. Every single time this statute , Inc. is applied, it violates the First Amendment because the onlyoptions available to speakers would either put them in jailfor making their speech generally available to the public or-- or prevent adults from accessing that -- that protectedspeech because either the speaker has self-censored orthey've put it all behind a screen that the record showsdrives -- drives away the users, and I -- I think I wasgoing to make just a another cite to the record that I thinkis an important one to note, and that is that theGovernment's own expert conceded that thousands of userswould be deterred from any single Web site as the result ofany registration system, and that is, again, similar to theevidence that the Court relied on in striking down thestatutes regulating indecency in cable television in boththe Playboy and the Denver Area cases. This statute has greater problems because it's acriminal statute. Those statutes, of course, just involvecivil penalties that -- oh, I thought I had that cite togive you but I actually don't -- I'll try to -- I'll try tofind it in a moment. The -- the district court in its findings of factsspecifically noted that point about the Government's expertconceding thousands of -- of users. QUESTION: But, just clarify it for a minute. Thereason that thousands are deterred are, one, they don't want , Inc. to self-identify, and two, they're unable to have creditcards or something of that kind. Those are the two reasons? MS. BEESON: Yes, and they don't want to self-identify because they're too embarrassed or because theydon't want to be stigmatized by being associated with thecontent. There is an additional reason, which the recordshowed, which I think is important to close with, and thatis the nature of this medium. This is an -- a whollyunprecedented medium of communication. This Court foundthat in Reno v. ACLU. It has extremely low barriers toentry. It allows users to access millions of sites justthrough this linking process. The record also showed that by setting up thesebarriers that kind of destroyed the nature of accessinginformation on the Internet. QUESTION: Would you tell me your response toGeneral Olson's argument that the self-identificationproblem is not serious because there's a restraint on the -­on the transmitter's use of that private information? MS. BEESON: I -- I'm sorry, I didn't follow you,Justice Stevens. QUESTION: Well, his answer to your self-identification problem is that self-identification tosomeone who by law is not allowed to pass that self­ , Inc. identification material on to third parties. MS. BEESON: Your Honor, this Court has -- hasnever upheld any statute which -­QUESTION: But why shouldn't we uphold thatargument? MS. BEESON: Because it's so clear that it woulddeter adults from accessing protected speech. I think thatthat is -­QUESTION: But I don't see if you rely on yourreason for deterrence is fear of self-identification, and ifthe statute makes that fear groundless, I'm not sure yourargument is persuasive. MS. BEESON: Oh, let me then cite to one morething, which I meant to get to before and I didn't, and thatis that there is a very big loophole in the privacyprotection in the law and that is -- it's under (d), let mequickly find it -- under (d)(), there was an exception --(d)(), exceptions to the privacy protection, any -- anyperson making a disclosure is not covered, I mean, can makethe disclosure as long as it's necessary to conduct alegitimate business activity related to making thecommunication. That's a fairly big loophole that I think wouldmake a lot of users very nervous, and of course, the -- theinitial problem is that they don't want to give their credit , Inc. card or their -- or their ID even to the Web site. I mean,these are Web sites that they've never seen before. They'resurfing the Web. They're not trusted local stores, they're-- they're unknown Web sites. QUESTION: Yes, but -- but millions of users of theWeb give their credit card number in order to buy books orsomething else that's for sale. I don't understand whythat's such a terrible invasion of privacy. MS. BEESON: Your Honor, in fact, what the recordshowed in this case was that the only time that Internetusers were comfortable giving their credit card was whenthey were ready to make a purchase. This law applies to -­as General Olson conceded, to just making the speechavailable with -- surrounded by advertising. Anybody whodid that, it doesn't just apply to speakers who are sellingtheir speech on the Web. In closing, I just want to say again that thisCourt has repeatedly held that the Government can't burndown the house to roast the pig, especially with so manyother tools available to protect minors more effectivelythan this statute does. The Government cannot send adultsto jail for displaying protected speech in the name ofprotecting children. Thank you. QUESTION: Thank you, Ms. Beeson. General Olson,you have four minutes remaining. , Inc. REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF GEN. THEODORE B. OLSON ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONER MR. OLSON: Thank you, Mr. Chief Justice. QUESTION: Could you address that exception to thedisclosure thing that Ms. Beeson just brought to ourattention? MR. OLSON: Yes. I don't -- I don't read it thatway. I don't think that's the -- the exception is intendedto -- to allow the person safe harbor by performing thefunction of the adult check. I mean, I think that's whatit's intended for -­QUESTION: Where --MR. OLSON: -- and it hasn't been, hasn't beenidentified before as a giant loophole in the statute, and Idon't think it's susceptible to that construction. I wanted to go back to where Justice Breyerstarted, what would be covered by the statute? The examplesgiven by the respondents were addressed in the Government'sbrief and all three of the -- all of those examples we don'tbelieve are covered by the statute. Susie Bright is notwithin, doesn't fit within the prurient interest in the -­and would be defended on -- this is reminiscent of what theCourt was facing in the American Booksellers case, and therespondents here were involved in that one as an amicus,where examples were cited as the house was going to fall, Inc. down, the sky was going to fall. This Court decided to remand that to the -- theVirginia Supreme Court and the Virginia Supreme Court foundthat none of the parade of horribles would be evencovered by the statute. That's this all over again, and itflies in the face of the requirement by this Court to find areasonable, a construction of the statute that would be, towhich it would be reasonably susceptible that would dealwith those constitutional problems. And -- and these definitions, these definitionshave already been approved with respect to minors in theGinsberg v. New York case, so we're not -- and that's acouple of -- several decades ago, so we're not dealing withsomething that is brand new. Susie Bright, by the way,writes for Salon magazine. In order to get her column youhave to register. Adult IDs, you can get them with credit cards, youcan get them with a check, and as we point out in footnote of our brief, you can use a driver's license or a passport,so you don't have to necessarily use a credit card to dothat. The -- the deterrence issue, all of the -- all of the-- all the court of -- the lower courts decided is that somepeople may be deterred, may be deterred, and some people maybe -- find this as an impediment. Some people may engage inself-center -- self-censorship, and to the extent that there , Inc. are thousands of people, that's an infinitesimal quantity ofwhat's on -- on the Web in itself. The most important point here, with respect toalternatives, Congress considered, as this Court suggestedit should, the various alternatives. The House, the Senatereport's good, but the House report, , which is cited allover the briefs on pages through considered all ofthese examples, the tagging, the filtering and so forth andwent through all of the reasons why Congress found that theywould not be effective and that what COPA was providingwould be effective, that there were costs, the burden shouldbe on the commercial purveyor of the material and so forth. Congress went through all of these things and made specificfindings. At the end of the day, it's important to emphasizethis is a facial challenge to a statute constructedaccording to this Court's guidance, according to thisCourt's decisions as to how to deal with a very seriousnational problem. It contains a scienter requirement thepurveyor of this material must know what's being done, hemust be engaged in the regular course of business, and Ican't recall -- I think it was you, Justice Breyer -- whoasked the question, how else could Congress have done it? This is a national problem. It's serious. It's causingirreparable injury to our most important resource, our , Inc. children. Congress has been struggling with this. Itlistened to what this course had -- Court had to say. Itexamined the nature of the medium, because this is adifferent medium, but one of the wonderful things about thismedium is also the -- one of the potentially dangerous partsof this medium. It's easily accessible to children in thehome and it's important that the Government be -- thisNation and its three branches of government be concernedwith the care and welfare of children independent of theparents' responsibility. So this is an example of a serious nationalproblem, Congress following conscientiously this Court'sguidance as to how to solve the problem and then laying itout for this Court as to how it did so, and it came up withthis statute, which is constitutional. CHIEF JUSTICE REHNQUIST: Thank you, General Olson. The case is submitted. (Whereupon, at : p.m., the case in the above-entitled matter was submitted.) , Inc. 