 IN THE SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -X FRANCIS A. ORFF, ET AL., Petitioners : : v. : No. - UNITED STATES, ET AL. : - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -X Washington, D.C. Wednesday, February , The above-entitled matter came on for oral argument before the Supreme Court of the United States at : a.m. APPEARANCES: WILLIAM M. SMILAND, ESQ., Los Angeles, California; on behalf of the Petitioners. JEFFREY P. MINEAR, ESQ., Assistant to the Solicitor General, Department of Justice, Washington, D.C.; on behalf of Respondent United States. STUART L. SOMACH, ESQ., Sacramento, California; on behalf of Respondent Westlands Water District. th Street, N.W., Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC Page C O N T E N T SORAL ARGUMENT OF WILLIAM M. SMILAND, ESQ. On behalf of the Petitioners JEFFREY P. MINEAR, ESQ. On behalf of Respondent United States STUART L. SOMACH, ESQ.PAGE On behalf of Respondent Westlands Water District REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF WILLIAM M. SMILAND, ESQ. On behalf of the Petitioners th Street, N.W., Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC Page P R O C E E D I N G S JUSTICE STEVENS: We will now hear argument in (: a.m.) Orff against the United States. Mr. Smiland. ORAL ARGUMENT OF WILLIAM M. SMILAND ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONERS MR. SMILAND: Justice Stevens, and may it please the Court: The relevant language of the contract, asilluminated in the surrounding circumstances, wasconfirmed in the express terms of the stipulatedjudgment which commanded the district and the UnitedStates to perform the contract. In particular, the first sentence of paragraph., which is at joint appendix page , states -- and Iquote -- the district acknowledges that it entered intothe contract for the benefit of Areas A and B. That's the premerger -­ JUSTICE O'CONNOR: Mr. Smiland, do you mindtelling us why the petitioners never filed suit in theCourt of Federal Claims? MR. SMILAND: Yes, Your Honor. There's a longhistory of litigation here. It began with the first suitin . We were in the district court there. There were th Street, N.W., Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC Page administrative and constitutional and equitable issues as well, and we were able in that initial case to combine all those forms of relief in the district court. And then, of course, we got this judgment that I began to read from. And from then on, we had four or five other cases all in the district court. We do acknowledge that on the breach of contract, there is concurrent jurisdiction under the Tucker Act. JUSTICE BREYER: Is it concurrent? I mean, the -- the statute I'm reading, the one you brought is consent is given to join the United States as a necessary party defendant. Is that what happened here? They were joined as a necessary party defendant? MR. SMILAND: Well, we think so, Your Honor. JUSTICE BREYER: They were? I -- I think that's -- isn't that -- what rule of -- I thought there's a -- a Rule of Federal Procedure. I can't remember what -­what's the -­ MR. SMILAND: Rule (s)? JUSTICE BREYER: Yes. Is that what they were joined under? MR. SMILAND: That -- that procedure was not invoked here. JUSTICE BREYER: No. Well, all right. Were th Street, N.W., Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC Page they -- there's technical phrase well known in the law tobe joined as a necessary party defendant. Given thenormal meaning in the law of that technical phrase, isthat what happened here? MR. SMILAND: No. What happened -- whathappened -­ JUSTICE BREYER: No, okay. If it did nothappen, then how could you possibly sue in that courtrather than the Court of Claims where the statute says you can sue on any implied, as well as express, contract? MR. SMILAND: Because the waiver of sovereign immunity statute says in any suit. JUSTICE BREYER: It doesn't mean in any suit insentence of the kind referred to in sentence ? Does itmean any suit in the universe? Any suit in the world? Any tort suit? I would have thought that sentence refers to sentence . MR. SMILAND: Well, it -- it does and that casewas litigated against the United States by my clients and-- and we won in the Peck case. And we think that shouldhave ended the matter. JUSTICE BREYER: But don't -- how can we, if wehave -- if -- if I read this -- this as meaningtechnically what it says and it's a jurisdictional matter,how could I do anything other than say, go to the Court of th Street, N.W., Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC Page Claims, you're in the wrong court? MR. SMILAND: Any suit is also in the first sentence, Your Honor. JUSTICE BREYER: Yes. It says -­ MR. SMILAND: And -- and -­ JUSTICE BREYER: -- in any suit you can join the United States as a necessary party. MR. SMILAND: The -- the -- in the sue and be sued cases, this Court construes that very broadly, and this is the same root word and -­ JUSTICE O'CONNOR: Well, but we don't give broad construction to waivers of sovereign immunity. MR. SMILAND: I -­ JUSTICE O'CONNOR: Quite the reverse. And it says to join the U.S. as a necessary party defendant in a suit to adjudicate, confirm, validate, or decree the contractual rights of a contracting entity in the United States regarding any contract executed pursuant. Now, I guess the farmers were not technically the contracting entity. MR. SMILAND: They were not the signing -­ JUSTICE O'CONNOR: No. MR. SMILAND: -- party. JUSTICE O'CONNOR: So you've got more problems. MR. SMILAND: Our -- our argument -- and again, th Street, N.W., Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC Page this has been resolved in the lower courts against theGovernment. But our -- our view is that by the nature ofthe intended beneficiary doctrine, the duty is owed to thethird party, as well as to the promisee, and it'senforceable by the third party, as well as the promisee. JUSTICE GINSBURG: If you -- if the lower courtswere of this view, why did the district court in this casegive you three opportunities to have your contract claimtransferred to the Claims Court? MR. SMILAND: Once the determination was madethat we were not intended third party beneficiaries, thatwas the law of the case, and had it been transferred tothe Claims Court, we -- we would have been bound by thatdetermination. We felt we had to bring to a finalresolution the -- the intended beneficiary issue before wecould proceed in the Claims Court either. JUSTICE GINSBURG: But it does suggest that thedistrict court had at least some concern whether the case-- your claim had been lodged in the right court. MR. SMILAND: Yes, although again that -- thatcourt had been hearing these matters for many years in -­in numerous cases without this issue ever having come up. JUSTICE BREYER: Well, but it's a -- see, I wantto know what I'm supposed to do. As I read the language,you're out. As I understand the purpose of the statute, th Street, N.W., Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC Page it makes sense to me if you're out, and it doesn't makesense to me if you're in. And maybe there's some lowercourt precedent to the contrary, which I'd certainly read,but is there any Supreme Court precedent to the contrarythat supports you? MR. SMILAND: Just the -- the language of in anysuit definitely is -­ JUSTICE BREYER: No, no. But that isn't thelimiting part. The limiting part is in any suit of a certain kind. MR. SMILAND: Yes. JUSTICE BREYER: What they give consent to isjoinder as a necessary party. And that is not whathappened here. MR. SMILAND: Only the -- the general principle that language should be read in its ordinary meaning -­ JUSTICE BREYER: It's ordinary meaning, you'reout because the ordinary meaning of joinder as a necessaryparty is you weren't joined as a -­ MR. SMILAND: There -- there at least is noevidence that Congress had rule in mind when it enactedeither the ' statute or the ' statute that we -- westand on. JUSTICE KENNEDY: Well, it's something that I hadn't concentrated on before now, but your position that, th Street, N.W., Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC Page well, if you're transferred to the Court -- to the Courtof Claims, that you bring with you all of the previousrulings of the United States district court in Californiaand that those are somehow binding because of the law ofthe case -- what is the authority for that? The -- thecourt that's transferred has to accept all the rulingsthat have been made previous to the transfer? MR. SMILAND: I -- our understanding is if,obviously -­ JUSTICE KENNEDY: I mean, what's the authority for that? MR. SMILAND: I can't cite you authority, YourHonor, but I -- we were very concerned about that. Ifthere was no waiver of sovereign immunity in the firstinstance, then the lower court's ruling on intended thirdparty beneficiary I would think should be vacated. JUSTICE SCALIA: Could I -- I -- I guess I'm notfollowing this. I don't know why, Mr. Smiland, you -- youhave not referred to the last sentence of -- of what youassert was the waiver of sovereign immunity, which saysany suit pursuant to this section may be brought in anyUnited States district court in the State in which theland involved is situated. Why isn't that what you'rerelying on? MR. SMILAND: It is and -- and when I was th Street, N.W., Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC Page talking about in any suit -­ JUSTICE BREYER: How does that help you? Because it says any suit pursuant to this section, and ofcourse, this section starts off by talking about additionof a person as a necessary party. So how does the lastsentence help you? JUSTICE SCALIA: I -- I -- MR. SMILAND: Well, it -- it -- if the words, join necessary, limit any suit and the language that Justice Scalia referred to, then -- then maybe we're introuble. But otherwise -­ JUSTICE SCALIA: I -- I take that to mean thatwhen you sue one defendant and you also sue the UnitedStates as a necessary party defendant, that suit -- any -­that would be a suit pursuant to this section. I -- Idon't know what other meaning that -- that sentence couldhave. When you sue two parties, one of whom is the UnitedStates, by reason of the fact that it's a necessary partydefendant, that suit is a suit pursuant this section andit can be brought in any United States district court inthe State in which the land involved is situated. I -- Idon't know what -- what other suit that -- that sentencecould refer to. JUSTICE BREYER: You -- you agree with that. I -- you're caught in between us here, and I understand. th Street, N.W., Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC Page (Laughter.) JUSTICE BREYER: And I guess we have to figure out what is the right meaning of that initial phrase. JUSTICE GINSBURG: Perhaps you can explain. This was not your suit originally. You intervened. Right? This was started out by the water district. MR. SMILAND: The district sued the United States. We intervened. JUSTICE GINSBURG: And then after some, I think, years -­ MR. SMILAND: Yes. JUSTICE GINSBURG: -- the water district bows out. It has settled its case. It's a mystery what it settled for. At least, I didn't see it in any of the briefs. Why did the water district, having brought this case, then say, we're satisfied, we're out? MR. SMILAND: The record is very sparse, Your Honor. There is the district's motion which says pretty much what it said in its brief, that there was a -- a thing called the principles between it and the United States and various parties. And as a result of those principles, which are not in the record, although they are a matter of public record, the -- the district in its discretion elected to dismiss the case. We opposed that. We would have hoped the district would have kept going. th Street, N.W., Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC Page We lost that opposition. The district was dismissed, andwe were allowed to proceed on our own. JUSTICE STEVENS: Mr. Smiland, can I ask thisquestion? If Justice Breyer is -- the thrust of hisquestion is right, I -- I think the district itself couldnot have brought the suit under his reading of thesovereign immunity. And I'm just wondering, has theUnited States ever taken the position that the districtcould not have initiated this litigation? MR. SMILAND: Not to my knowledge, Your Honor. JUSTICE SCALIA: Could -- could we hear yourargument on -- on the sovereign immunity point as opposedto the venue point? What -- on what ground do you say theUnited States has waived its -- its immunity from suit inthis case? MR. SMILAND: There are two statutes. JUSTICE GINSBURG: May -- may we just back up tothe question -- your answer to Justice Stevens? I thoughtthat this wasn't a suit initially on the part of the waterdistrict for money damages. I thought they were seekingdeclaratory relief against the United States. MR. SMILAND: They pled both, Your Honor. Although at that time the water still was available fordelivery, it hadn't flowed to the ocean. And the moneyhad not yet been collected and spent. So the focus th Street, N.W., Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC Page initially was on equitable relief to stop -­ JUSTICE GINSBURG: Because one could -- onecould read the words, suit to adjudicate, confirm,validate, or decree the contractual rights, as a suit fordeclaratory relief but not encompassing damages. MR. SMILAND: Both statutes we cite say thatjudgments can be entered in the same manner, to the sameextent as a private individual under like circumstances,language I believe from the Federal Tort Claims Act. Again, both in the F.Supp. decision under the McCarranAct and in the Peck case, the district court held thatmoney damages were encompassed by that. So both statute-- statutes on which we rely have language in it takenfrom other sources of law, with which this Court is veryfamiliar and has opined on several times. The -- the only unique parts of -- of either ofthe two statutes that we stand on are -- are the rights. One refers to administering a previously adjudicated rightto the use of water, and the other is the contractlanguage we've discussed. JUSTICE SCALIA: Can you turn to sovereign immunity now? MR. SMILAND: Yes. JUSTICE SCALIA: And -- and let me make -- make it easy for you. Do you know of any case, other than th Street, N.W., Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC Page cases decided by this friendly district judge, in which asuit has been allowed against the United States based onnothing more than the status as a third party beneficiaryof a contract to which the United States has -- on whichthe United States has agreed to be sued? Is -- is thereany such case? MR. SMILAND: No. JUSTICE SCALIA: And -- and you think it's clear that -- as our sovereign immunity law requires, that such a third party beneficiary can sue the United States? MR. SMILAND: For example, in the U.S. v.District Court case decided by this Court in , underthe McCarran Act, that fact situation was not before you,but the Court did say that the rights to which the statutereferred were all inclusive. It read it broadly. JUSTICE SCALIA: I -- I don't understand that. The rights were all inclusive. As -- as I understand the law of third partybeneficiaries, it -- it used to be -- and -- and perhapsat the time this statute was enacted still was -- quite -­quite restrictive. It's only in more recent -- I don'tagree with the Government's argument that -- that you haveto, in an ordinary contract, explicitly refer to the thirdparty beneficiary's rights. But when sovereign immunityis at issue, it's -- it's a different question, it seems th Street, N.W., Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC Page to me. MR. SMILAND: Well, we have explicit rights here and -- and it would seem to me that if -- if -- and this was certainly the legislative history behind section , not -- not behind McCarran. But if -- if the same duty is owed by the promisor to the third party that it owes to the promisee, and if the third party has the same rights of enforcement as it does under of the Restatement that the promisee would have, why should it be any different? Why would Congress have intended to exclude that? And it used the word contract. JUSTICE SCALIA: Because -- because we have a rule that says when Congress wants the United States to be sued, it -- it must say so clearly. MR. SMILAND: You also have the rule that the word contract means the law of contract and not parts of it. JUSTICE STEVENS: But yes, isn't it arguable, though, that in this case the Government probably thought that it would be efficient to have the district represent all the farmers for whatever their -- to the extent their interests were shared with one another, rather than having every individual have the same right to bring -- bring a lawsuit? MR. SMILAND: Efficient in -- in collecting land th Street, N.W., Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC Page assessments and water charges, but there's no evidence inthe -- either the language of the statute, I submit, orthe -­ JUSTICE STEVENS: Except for the fact that thedistrict is the party to the contract, though. MR. SMILAND: Nothing was said about litigation,let alone intended third party beneficiary -­ JUSTICE KENNEDY: Well, but the -- the wholepoint of the district -- correct if I'm wrong. This isyour area. The whole point of the district was to make iteasier for the United States to know with whom it wasdealing to have an efficient system, and if you say, well,that doesn't include lawsuits for damages, it seems to methat destroys much of the purpose of the formation of thedistrict. MR. SMILAND: There's a lot of legislativehistory there, and it talks a great deal, as you say, YourHonor, about efficiency and -- and the convenience. Butit's not talking at all about litigation, about remedies,about rights once there's a breach. JUSTICE SCALIA: But you haven't really achievedvery much efficiency if you simply get the United Statesout of the business of collecting the payments and ofkeeping track of the payments but leave the United Statessubject to suit when the person who has authority to do -­ th Street, N.W., Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC Page do these things goofs. I mean, what -- what trouble hasthe United States saved itself? It would still have toride herd over -- over the person with -- with whom it'sdealing. MR. SMILAND: Well, it -- this is a transactionbetween a water seller and many water buyers. Yes, in districts were put in the middle, but it's also truein in -- in the section (e), Congress authorized theparticular type of contracts we have here, so-called waterservice contracts, and it doesn't mention district. Andas a matter of fact, the Ninth Circuit has held that thebureau had the discretion administratively to deal withindividuals. So throughout the history of the reclamationprogram, you -- you have the -- the core transaction is -­is a water sale from the Government to -- to farmers. Andthat's was the case on day one in and it still is. And I'd just like to remind the Court thatparagraph of the stipulated judgment at page of thejoint appendix is in our view dispositive here. This wasa -- an agreement by the United States and the district,approved by a court after formal settlement notice wasdispatched to two formal classes, and it says, anyappropriate relief may be obtained against the Federalparties by the filing of a new action for violation of any th Street, N.W., Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC Page contract arising independently of this judgment. JUSTICE SCALIA: But the -- the Justice Department has no authority to -- to consent to suit which -- which Congress has not consented to. I don't see how this strengthens your case. MR. SMILAND: Again, if -- if this Court should hold that neither of the two statutes on -- on which we stand waive sovereign immunity, and -­ JUSTICE SCALIA: And this alone wouldn't -­ wouldn't remedy the -­ MR. SMILAND: Then -- then -­ JUSTICE SCALIA: -- the absence -­ MR. SMILAND: -- the decision that we're not intended beneficiaries should be vacated and we should have a chance to go to the court -- Claims Court. I'd like to reserve, Your Honor, minutes, if I may. JUSTICE STEVENS: You may, indeed, Mr. Smiland. Mr. Minear, I think you're up next. ORAL ARGUMENT OF JEFFREY P. MINEAR ON BEHALF OF RESPONDENT UNITED STATES MR. MINEAR: Justice Stevens, and may it please the Court: Petitioners cannot maintain this suit for breach of the Westlands contract because the Westlands contract th Street, N.W., Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC Page is itself subject to the rules of sovereign immunity. Andsection uu authorizes only a limited waiver ofsovereign immunity. It does not authorize suits byincidental beneficiaries for money damages. For many of the points that have already beenraised by Justice Breyer, Justice Kennedy -­ JUSTICE STEVENS: Mr. Minear, do you think itdoes waive sovereign immunity for suits brought by thedistrict? MR. MINEAR: In one circumstance, Your Honor. This suit allows a district that has been sued byindividual water users to join the United States in theongoing suit and, in fact, remove the case to Federalcourt if necessary, so there can be a determination of allthe rights in those -­ JUSTICE STEVENS: Did this suit begin as a suitby a water user against the district and then you werejoined later? Is that -- MR. MINEAR: No, it did not, but that did occurin the Barcellos & Wolfsen litigation that ran between and . JUSTICE STEVENS: Well, in this suit, did not the district bring it against the United States? MR. MINEAR: That's correct. JUSTICE STEVENS: And was that a -- was that th Street, N.W., Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC Page jurisdiction proper at that time? MR. MINEAR: That suit was brought under theAPA, and the district brought the suit on that basis. JUSTICE STEVENS: But was it properly brought iswhat I'm asking you. MR. MINEAR: That suit was properly brought. JUSTICE STEVENS: Okay. MR. MINEAR: But it was not brought under uu. Instead, there was an allegation that the United States had acted unlawfully and the Westlands relied on theAdministrative Procedure Act. JUSTICE SCALIA: And no money damages. MR. MINEAR: And no money damages as well, and that's what distinguishes this case. JUSTICE BREYER: So that -- so your view -- Imean, what -- what makes sense to me is that the sectionmeans what it says, that consent is given to join theUnited States. That means join them in an ongoing suit. And it makes sense because what the United States wants isanyone who sues them for money damages goes to the Courtof Claims. But of course, where you have an ongoing suitbetween two other people, we'll make an exception becausethere it's already in another district and we'll let youbring the United States in as a necessary party. Theother exception is when you don't sue for money damages. th Street, N.W., Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC Page That's in section of the APA. Now, that to me makes a lot of sense and it'sconsistent with the language. Is that your view or do youhave a different view? MR. MINEAR: Yes, that is our view, and let mesupplement your comments in this regard. Section -­ JUSTICE KENNEDY: May I -- may I -- has thatalways been your view throughout? (Laughter.) MR. MINEAR: It has been our view under uu when section uu has been -- has been raised. JUSTICE KENNEDY: But throughout the litigation? MR. MINEAR: Throughout this litigation? Ican't -- I can't be sure that we've maintained aconsistent position, but ultimately this is a question ofsovereign immunity. So the importance is that we get theissue right here. JUSTICE SCALIA: There has to be an ongoingsuit. You think this section does -- does not permitsomebody to initiate suit against one party and at thesame time against the United States as a necessary party. MR. MINEAR: Your Honor, let me explain why that's the case, and there was an answer -­ JUSTICE SCALIA: Why what is the case? MR. MINEAR: Why there's a necessity for an th Street, N.W., Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC Page ongoing suit. JUSTICE SCALIA: You -- that is to say, there'sa suit between only two individuals and then the UnitedStates is brought in. MR. MINEAR: Your Honor, this -- this provisionwas enacted in response to a specific problem that'sillustrated by the Barcellos & Wolfsen litigation. Individual farmers sued an irrigation district. Theirrigation district was concerned that it might be subjectto inconsistent liability to the farmers on the one handand the Federal Government on the other, and it sought tojoin the United States. There was no mechanism in for that type of suit. Congress acted -­ JUSTICE SCALIA: I understand that. That's onesituation that this provision could cover, but there areother situations that this provision could -- could cover. Let's say a farmer wants to bring suit against thedistrict, but it doesn't really know whether the fault iswith the district or whether the district was -- wascompelled to do what it did by the United States. So itsues the district and just in case the United States was-- was responsible, it joins the United States. Whydoesn't the language entirely permit that kind of a suit? MR. MINEAR: The language could be construed to allow that, but -- but waivers of sovereign immunity are th Street, N.W., Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC Page construed narrowly, and the language I think is moreproperly construed, as Justice Breyer has suggested, toallow joinder as a necessary party. And in fact, it wasenacted in specific reaction to that problem in theBarcellos & Wolfsen litigation where we did have ongoinglitigation and there was a sense by the irrigationdistrict they needed to join the United States so theywould not be subject to inconsistent suits. So although I think that the language can bearthe -- the interpretation that you're suggesting, JusticeScalia, nevertheless, I think the better interpretation isthe more narrow one that is -­ JUSTICE SCALIA: Then -- then how do you explainthe last -- the last sentence of that provision, which isany suit pursuant to this section? The only suit that thesection refers to is a suit in which the United States isjoined as a necessary party defendant. That's the subjectof the section. MR. MINEAR: Yes, and -­ JUSTICE SCALIA: And -- and the last sentencesays, any suit pursuant to this section may be brought inany United States district court. And I read that to meanif you want to sue the United States as a necessary partyinitiating a suit, you can bring it in -- in any districtcourt in which the land involved is. th Street, N.W., Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC Page MR. MINEAR: Your Honor, we read that asallowing removal in those circumstances when the UnitedStates is joined later. In any event, I have to say that with regard to-- to this disagreement, it does -- it's not dispositiveor even affect the case here. The fact is that thiswaiver of sovereign immunity under no circumstances wouldallow this suit to go forward. Apart from the moneydamages aspect, which itself is -- is -- would precludethis type of suit, these parties are not intendedbeneficiaries, and without being intended beneficiaries,there's -- in no circumstances could they ever evoke theseprovisions. JUSTICE GINSBURG: Mr. Minear, when you say -­when you say not money damages, do you read the words thatI read to Mr. Smiland restrictively or do you think theyaccommodate money damages, that is, suit to adjudicate,confirm, validate, or decree the contractual rights of acontracting entity? MR. MINEAR: We think that under your cases,such as Pena v. Lane, there needs to be a specificreference to money damages. This simply is referencingdeclaratory relief, and so we do not believe it wouldallow an award of money damages. Rather, the party mustgo to the Claims Court if they're seeking money damages. th Street, N.W., Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC Page And in fact, the waiver of sovereign immunitythere is somewhat broader. It does, as mentioned before,allow implied or express contracts. So this suit issimply in the wrong court. But I would like to -­ JUSTICE KENNEDY: So money damages -- waiveralways used the word money damages. When it saysadjudicate the rights under the contract, that doesn'tinclude money damages? MR. MINEAR: No, I do not think in this contextit would. I think there needs to be something morespecific. We're really talking about declaring rightshere and not providing a specific remedy. And this Courthas always taken the view that the Claims Courtjurisdiction is the appropriate forum for deciding moneydamages. JUSTICE SCALIA: What about the second sentence?The United States, when a party, shall be deemed to havewaived any right to plead that it is not amenable theretoby reason of its sovereignty and shall be subject tojudgments, orders, and decrees of the court havingjurisdiction and may obtain review thereof in the samemanner and to the same extent? It's subject to thejudgments, orders, and decrees of the court to the sameextent as a private individual under like circumstances. th Street, N.W., Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC Page Why isn't that enough to -- to say that the court can -­can award damages? MR. MINEAR: Your Honor, I think that simplyrefers back to the previous sentence, which refers toadjudicate, confirm, validate, or decree. Now, if youinterpret that to include money damages, then the secondsentence would follow, but I -- I think the two have to beconstrued together. And in our view simply allowing aparty to adjudicate, confirm, validate, or decree in thesecircumstances would not allow award of money damages. Certainly I think Congress would be much clearer. JUSTICE STEVENS: Yes, but if contractual rightsinclude a right to be paid for something, why wouldn't youget a money judgment in a case like that? That firstsentence certainly covers the possibility of a contractualright to be paid something. MR. MINEAR: Your Honor, again, waivers of sovereign immunity are construed narrowly. Now, let's -­ JUSTICE STEVENS: That's pretty clear language. MR. MINEAR: -- I have to say that the language-- you're saying that the language -- yes, could itconceivably be -- be interpreted in -- on -- that broadly. But that's not -­ JUSTICE STEVENS: Certainly if it were not a -­ a United States and were a private individual, it would th Street, N.W., Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC Page include money damages. MR. MINEAR: That might well be, but this is -­ JUSTICE STEVENS: And -- and the next sentence,as Justice Scalia points out, says the United States shallbe treated just like a private party. MR. MINEAR: Yes. But Your Honor, ultimately Ithink that we have to focus on that this is a waiver ofsovereign immunity. And -- and so far we have not touchedon the question of whether these parties -­ JUSTICE STEVENS: Well, I think you've got avery strong argument when you talk about an incidentalthird party beneficiary not being a contracting party, butnow you're asking for a much broader holding than reallynecessary to dispose of this case, it seems to me. MR. MINEAR: Your Honor, I think I started withthat point, that an incidental beneficiary cannot invokethis -- this provision. And I'd like to -- to continuewith that point because the party here is merely anincidental beneficiary and not an intended beneficiary. Under any of the -- the tests that have been applied forthird party beneficiaries, the party here would notqualify as an intended beneficiary. Most importantly, the contracting parties here,the United States and Westlands, expressed no intent togive this party enforcement rights. th Street, N.W., Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC Page What's more, the contract does not provide thatperformance would be rendered to -- to the petitioners inthis case. The contract is quite clear that performanceis rendered to Westlands. This is a contract in which theUnited States furnishes a specified amount of water toWestlands and Westlands pays money for it. Westlands thenhas a separate obligation with regard to the farmers. JUSTICE SCALIA: Separate from -- where doesthat -- that obligation come from? MR. MINEAR: That arises from the regulationsthat the Westlands Water District has enacted thatprovides for the delivery of water from Westlands to theindividual farmers. The United States' obligation -­ JUSTICE SCALIA: That's a State -- a State­ created obligation? MR. MINEAR: That's right. That is -- andWestlands has the -- has the option of either engaging incontracts with the individual farmers or distributing thewater through regulation, and it has opted forregulations. Now, Westlands itself is a governmental unit. It is comprised of the -- of the very farmers here, amongothers, who have brought this suit. And it has theauthority to act in a representative capacity on behalf ofall its members. And that is why the United States enters th Street, N.W., Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC Page into contracts with irrigation districts precisely becauseit allows them to reach accord and agreement and toresolve their disputes. Now, the fact is that the UnitedStates and Westlands agree on a great many things. Sometimes they disagree, but when we disagree, we're ableto -- to speak to one another as two governmentsrepresenting constituencies and hammer out ourdifferences. And that would be impossible if these typesof third party beneficiary suits were allowed. And I think that goes to the crux of what theUnited States' real concern here is. When there arecontracts between one government and another, just as inthe context of treaties or compacts among the States, it'svital that the two governmental units be able to deal withone another as governments and to be assured that if theycan reach accord on behalf of their representatives -- onbehalf of the parties they represent, that that willresolve the issue. If it were otherwise, this type ofdistribution of water -­ JUSTICE O'CONNOR: Well, you don't take theposition, do you, that Westlands could have agreed withthe United States that it wouldn't enforce its new lawsthat deprived the farmers of water? You don't take thatposition. MR. MINEAR: But let's look at what would th Street, N.W., Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC Page happen, Your Honor, if that did happen. The individualfarmers would sue Westlands, claiming that Westlands wasnot living up to its contract obligations. Westlandswould invoke uu and join the United States in thatsuit. And the question of the legal rights would bedetermined on that basis. So the mechanism that -- thatwe've specified and the way that we interpret it dealsprecisely with the problem that you've -- you'veaddressed. JUSTICE O'CONNOR: Yes, but you can't -- the -­presumably the Federal Government can't negotiate away theEndangered Species Act or something. The fact is that newlaws were passed after these contracts were entered intowith Westlands. Isn't that right? MR. MINEAR: That's correct. And again, I thinkit's instructive to see what happened in this case. Whenthose laws were enacted, the United States reacted tothose. Westlands brought a suit under the APA challengingthe interpretation of the statutes. Westlands wasentitled to do that under the APA. The United States andWestlands reached an accord, together with theenvironmental intervenors in this group, that wassatisfactory to those parties. And it simply would bevery disruptive of the system if a minority of farmers inthe Westlands District could then bring a suit and upset th Street, N.W., Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC Page that agreement and that accord that had been reached. Finally, I'd like to make a brief -­ JUSTICE KENNEDY: Can the district get damagesfrom the Government? MR. MINEAR: Technically yes, but their damagesare limited by the terms of the contract. Westlands couldsue the United States in Claims Court for a breach of thecontract, but the contract itself says that any damagesthat are -- that the sole liability of the United Statesin these circumstances would be an adjustment of theaccount. In other words, there are not consequentialdamages. Rather, if we do not provide Westlands with thewater that Westlands believes it's entitled to, then westand liable for an adjustment in the payments thatWestlands would make to us. The suit that is being brought here is askingfor consequential damages, and we believe that thecontract here does not allow consequential damages. That,of course, is a merits question that there's no need forthe Court to reach, but that is the way it would beresolved in Claims Court in -- in our view. I'd like to also raise the question of propertyrights since that has -- has come up, that one of thearguments that has been made by Westlands is that they'reentitled to status of a third party beneficiary because th Street, N.W., Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC Page they claim they have water rights in these circumstances.The fact is that the United States, the State ofCalifornia, and Westlands, as well as the California WaterResources Board and the first tier of California courts,have all concluded they do not have the -- the waterrights that they claim. But in any event, our view isthat that issue is irrelevant to the inquiry here. Rather, the question of third party beneficiarystatus turns on the intent of the contracting parties. Did they or did they not intend to give enforceable rightsto the third party? Here there's not a shred of evidencethat that was an intent -- there was an intent to createenforceable rights in that third party. Quite to the contrary. The only reference ofthird parties, the farmers, in the contract here isdirected to limitations on what the district can do onceit receives its water. It doesn't create rights in them-- the individual farmers. Quite to the contrary. Whatit does it restricts the ability of the district in orderto protect the United States' interests, to make sure theUnited States will be paid for the water that itultimately provides to the district. The central point that I would like to leave youwith, though, here at the end is the importance ofprotecting the relationship between the United States and th Street, N.W., Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC Page Westlands. But although we disagree on some matters, weare able to reach accommodation and agreement, and whenwe're able to do that, it's to the good of all concerned. The contracts and the laws here are structured to allowthose types of agreements to be reached, and we think thatallowing third party beneficiary suits would be verydisruptive of that -- that operation. JUSTICE STEVENS: Thank you, Mr. Minear. Mr. Somach, will you tell us what the district's views on this whole matter are? ORAL ARGUMENT OF STUART L. SOMACH ON BEHALF OF RESPONDENT WESTLANDS WATER DISTRICT MR. SOMACH: Yes, Your Honor. Justice Stevens, and may it please the Court: Westlands Water District has argued in its briefthat petitioners are not intended third partybeneficiaries with enforceable rights under the contract. I want to make two points from the perspectiveof the district why this must be so. First, allowing a direct right of action bypetitioners is not practical or consistent with thedistrict's need and ability to function as a governmentalentity and to allocate all of the water that it receivesunder contract to all of the landowners within the -- thedistrict. This is a scarce and valuable resource, and th Street, N.W., Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC Page these types of third party lawsuits jeopardize thedistrict's ability to be able to provide water pursuant toCalifornia Water Code provisions to all of the landownerswithin the district. Second, the laws of the State of California andreclamation law, working in harmony one with the other -­ JUSTICE SCALIA: Excuse me. Could you expand onthe first point a little bit? I mean, you say you don'twant to be bothered with lawsuits. Is -- is that -- is that all that it amounts to? MR. SOMACH: No. I -- I think quite on thecontrary. You know, and unfortunately, the -- the historyof this contract and these -- these issues has beenanything other than the district avoiding litigation. The -- the whole concept of a water district isnot to individualize or incrementalize the water andinterests in water in any one group of landowners or anyone landowner. The idea is that the rights of all of thelandowners to all of the water under the contract are tobe treated as a whole and allow the district to provideprotection to all of the landowners within the district asa whole, the point there being that the water doesn'tbelong to any one landowner or a group of landowners. Itbelongs to the whole. And in fact, the way the district operates, the th Street, N.W., Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC Page way it has to operate is in the context of the whole. Bonds are issued. Encumbrances on lands are -- areincurred, all based upon not individual rights to waterbut rather broad rights of water throughout the district. To allow a small group of landowners to decide how toadminister the contract, how to enforce the contract inany one given situation leaves decisions that are criticalto all of the landowners solely in the hands of anunaccountable small group of -- of landowners. JUSTICE SCALIA: Can't -- can't such a suit bebrought in State court? I can't believe that thisdistrict can do whatever it wants with the water. MR. SOMACH: Oh, absolutely not. Yes, it -­ yes, it can. JUSTICE SCALIA: Really? MR. SOMACH: No. What I meant to say was yes, you are right. JUSTICE SCALIA: Okay. MR. SOMACH: And absolutely not. It can't dojust anything it wants to do. It is subject, as agovernmental entity, to all the strict requirements ofCalifornia water law and governmental law, for thatmatter. If, for example, these petitioners decide forwhatever reason they don't like a decision of the -- ofthe board -- and in fact, that is an example that exists th Street, N.W., Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC Page emanating out of the facts of this case. When thedistrict decided that it was better to settle thelitigation, these landowners first petitioned the -- thegoverning of the -- of the district and sought to -- tohave them not proceed in that manner, the way any othergroup of citizens or constituents with any othergovernmental entity would have proceeded. The districtdecided, however, that it was in the best interests of allof the landowners within the district to settle the litigation. Now, at that point in time certainly, thesepetitioners had the normal and ordinary rights that any -­any constituent within the district has to be able tochallenge a decision that has been made by the district.That includes, for example, writ proceedings, to arguethat the decision of the board was arbitrary, capricious,otherwise unlawful, and that it should -- should bemandated to -- to proceed in some other fashion. If the issue were damages, this district issubject, like any other governmental entity within theState of California, to the government Tort Claims Act if-- if they're tortious type damages. And if we havearguable impairment of property rights, this district issubject to the California constitution, the United StatesConstitution, and the government code provisions that th Street, N.W., Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC Page provide for litigation with respect to those broader typesof -- of damages. And quite frankly, this is a governmental bodyand it is very susceptible to the political process. Itis not an easy thing for -- for the district to bestanding up here and telling you that its landownersaren't entitled to receive what they want. That's a verydifficult for the district to -- to do. But in dealingwith the rights of the entire district, it's an absoluteessential thing to do. If these landowners had exercisedtheir prerogatives under California law, they could have,assuming they were the majority, controlled the decisionsof the board of directors in the way that any majorityconstituency controls the director -- the -- the directionand the decisions of a -- of a governing board. You know, this -- this lawsuit is instructive in-- in a number of ways in terms of these practicalconcerns that we have in terms of how in the world are wegoing to be able to administer a contract like this one. How are we going to do all of the things that the WaterCode has told us that we have to do if, at any given time,a landowner, a small group of landowners is able to gointo Federal district court and independently decide thatit wants to administer the contract that the district haswith the United States or to enforce terms of the contract th Street, N.W., Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC Page that it has with the United States in a manner that'sinconsistent or different than the way -­ JUSTICE STEVENS: I don't really understand whythat's any greater burden than the fact they can sue youin State court anyway. They -- they can always bringlitigation. MR. SOMACH: Well, it -- it really requires thedistrict to, in a sense, race to the courthouse with the-- with the petitioners in order to be there first in order to have its views of the contract -­ JUSTICE SCALIA: Well, the suit in State court,I assume, would -- would only be -- the claim would bethat you were acting arbitrarily, and so long as yourinterpretation of the contract was a reasonable one, thesuit would fail. MR. SOMACH: Yes. JUSTICE SCALIA: Whereas, this suit here -- itdoesn't matter how reasonable it is. If it's wrong, it'swrong. I mean, it's quite a different -­ MR. SOMACH: No. I think it is a differentsituation, and I agree with what you -- what you havesaid, Your Honor. I do, however, want to -- to not avoid theconcern that may be expressed here, and -- and that is,that -- that what it does is it -- it forces the district th Street, N.W., Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC Page into a situation of chasing its landowners, in essence,around from one litigation forum to another in order toensure that its means of controlling and -- andadministering the contract is not jeopardized. The factthat the landowners -- if the landowners can move forwardindependently with litigation with respect to thecontract, what it really does is create in a sense a -­the contract becomes this very interesting moving targetwhere the district has its views about what the contractis and how it should be administered, how it should beenforced, and then it proceeds in one direction as, forexample, it did with the settlement in this litigation,deciding that that was the best way to protect theinterests of the district. Had these petitioners on the merits in ahypothetical situation prevailed with a totally differentresult, that would have substantially affected andimpacted the district's ability to be able to maintain theobligations and the commitments that it made to the othersettling parties. That destabilizes the ability of thedistrict to actually act in other governmental forums, inforums with the United States, with the State ofCalifornia, with other districts in the context ofattempting to say we control the contract, we enforce itsterms, and we can make commitments. And when we make th Street, N.W., Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC Page those commitments, we can abide by and we can live up tothose commitments in a way that -- that governments oughtto be able to do when they're -- when they're making thosetypes of commitments. Having the landowners being able to come or -­and here, I want to make certain. When I use the wordlandowners, I'm not saying that the landowners are notbeneficiaries of the contract. They certainly are. JUSTICE KENNEDY: What about the provision inthe judgment at page that was -- that was cited to us,that -- that the parties may obtain other appropriaterelief by the filing of a new action? MR. SOMACH: Yes. I -- I think that that -­that phrase is actually begun as a proviso, and I view itas not limiting the ability of the area I landowners inthe Barcellos & Wolfsen judgment that you're -- thatyou're quoting from from being able to act in any otherway. It was a non-limiting provision. The -- the firstpart of the -- the part that you read deals with whattheir rights to enforce were. The second part was aproviso that simply said notwithstanding this, whateverelse you're able to do, you may do. Thank you for your time. JUSTICE STEVENS: Thank you, Mr. Somach. Mr. Smiland, you have minutes remaining, but th Street, N.W., Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC Page you do not have to use it all. REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF WILLIAM M. SMILAND ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONERS MR. SMILAND: Thank you, Your Honor. What happened here is that the United Statessold half the water it was obligated to sell under thecontract. It doubled the price it was permitted to chargeon the other half. It was a massive harm to the farmers. I'm sure you understand. JUSTICE GINSBURG: Well, you say under thecontract. I thought there was a provision in the contractthat said that the United States will not be responsiblefor under-deliveries, and I think it listed the droughtand the last thing was any other cause. MR. SMILAND: Well, that's what we were about togo to trial on, Your Honor. That's a merits issue. TheNinth Circuit has abstained on whether there was amandatory statutory duty to cut off this water, and I urgethe Court not to -- to dive into that pool. We're trying to get in the courthouse doors. JUSTICE GINSBURG: But you were saying there's-- there's a right under this contract to recover from theUnited States for an under-delivery. MR. SMILAND: We have massive cross summary judgment motions on that issue and we were entitled to go th Street, N.W., Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC Page to trial on that -- on our claim of liability. JUSTICE SOUTER: What -- JUSTICE SCALIA: If -­ JUSTICE SOUTER: No, please. JUSTICE SCALIA: No. I've asked a lot of questions. Go on. JUSTICE SOUTER: What do you make -- excuse me. What do you make of the argument for reasonableconstruction of the contract that in fact you just simplycannot have a system that would promise the chaos that -­that you are promising? MR. SMILAND: I -- I don't make much of it. Theparties here and -- and the parties in the West fullyunderstood for years, after Allen Orchards, that thefarmers were intended third party beneficiaries. That's-- we settled in with that understanding, and thisparade of horribles just has not come to pass. JUSTICE SOUTER: Is -- is it correct, as JusticeScalia suggested earlier, that so far as State litigationis concerned, it would be limited simply to arbitrary,unreasonable behavior? MR. SMILAND: That's true. And even morefundamentally, the United States breached the contract. The district didn't do anything wrong. Why would we suethe district when the United States cut off the water and th Street, N.W., Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC Page doubled the charge? JUSTICE SCALIA: Well, I think it's arbitrarynot to -- not to -- for an agency, of which you're -­you're in some sense at least the beneficiary, not toinsist upon its contract rights, just as a shareholder caninsist that the -- that a corporation enforce itscontracts. MR. SMILAND: We had a little mini-trial on thatin front of the -- in front of the district court, and -­and I made that argument, Your Honor, and the districtcourt rejected it. JUSTICE SCALIA: No, he was wrong. That was -­ (Laughter.) MR. SMILAND: I agree. JUSTICE BREYER: I guess the reason that youwould sue the district would be if you didn't have anyenforceable promise from the United States that theydidn't -- wouldn't do it. MR. SMILAND: Well, we -- we -­ JUSTICE BREYER: Now, you think you do. That's the issue in the case. MR. SMILAND: We had a stipulated judgment. JUSTICE BREYER: And so therefore -- therefore,I'm looking for where that promise is. And you startedout by citing a page, which wasn't a page of the contract. th Street, N.W., Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC Page It was a page of some kind of settlement, and that page said that the district agrees that they entered into the contract with helping the farmers in mind. I'm sure they did. So what. I mean, I might buy a house with the idea of helping of my child. I'm going to give it to him. That doesn't mean he can enforce the contract. MR. SMILAND: German Alliance, Your Honor. JUSTICE BREYER: You mean my child can enforce a contract I enter into with another -- I buy a house and I say I intend to give it to my daughter. MR. SMILAND: If the contract -­ JUSTICE BREYER: And then she can enforce the contract? MR. SMILAND: If the contract says -­ JUSTICE BREYER: Yes. If the contract says. Now, that's why I was interested that you didn't cite language in the contract. MR. SMILAND: Oh, yes, we did, Your Honor. JUSTICE BREYER: You -- well, I mean, you started out by referring me to page or -­ MR. SMILAND: That's true. JUSTICE BREYER: -- which doesn't. Now, what is the language in the contract -­ MR. SMILAND: Articles -­ JUSTICE BREYER: -- that helps you the most? th Street, N.W., Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC Page MR. SMILAND: -- and (b) of the 'contract and also the contract explicitly refers tobenefit, and probably most dramatically, the recordablecontracts that were signed actually with my clients andthe United States said that they were made inconsideration of the direct and indirect benefits thatthose farmers would gain from the contract. Now,paragraph . in the judgment, which came some yearslater, reconfirmed that. What was new and different about the judgment isthat for the first time it made explicit -- we think itwas implied earlier, but explicit that there wasenforceable rights in the farmers, and we've argued itunder your German Alliance test that's not required, butif it was required, we bargained for, we got it. The -­the court approved that and the Congress approved that. And I -- I -- personally I've looked at all of these casesin recent months. It's very rare for an intendedbeneficiary to have language like that. In any case, as I was saying, my clients havesuffered massive losses. They've been litigating theseclaims for years. Everyone has assumed there waswaiver of sovereign landowner. Everyone assumed they'reintended beneficiaries. And we think we should have aforum and a remedy and a right to our day in court. th Street, N.W., Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC Page JUSTICE STEVENS: Thank you, Mr. Smiland. The case is taken under advisement. (Whereupon, at : a.m., the case in theabove-entitled matter was submitted.) th Street, N.W., Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC Page 