Official IN THE SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - x JOSE ANTONIO LOPEZ, : : : No. - : : : : : : No. - UNITED STATES. : - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - x Petitioner, ALBERTO R. GONZALES, ATTORNEY GENERAL; and REYMUNDO TOLEDO-FLORES, Petitioner, v. v. Washington, D.C. Tuesday, October , The above-entitled matter came on for oral argument before the Supreme Court of the United States at : a.m. APPEARANCES: ROBERT A. LONG, JR., ESQ., Washington, D.C.; on behalf of Petitioner Lopez. TIMOTHY CROOKS, ESQ., Supervisory Assistant Federal Public Defender, Houston, Texas; on behalf of Petitioner Toledo-Flores. Official EDWIN S. KNEEDLER, ESQ., Deputy Solicitor General, Department of Justice, Washington, D.C.; on behalf of the Respondents. Official C O N T E N T S ORAL ARGUMENT OF ROBERT A. LONG, JR., ESQ. PAGE On behalf of Petitioner Lopez ORAL ARGUMENT OF TIMOTHY CROOKS, ESQ. On behalf of Petitioner Toledo-Flores ORAL ARGUMENT OF EDWIN S. KNEEDLER, ESQ. On behalf of the Respondents REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF ROBERT A. LONG, JR., ESQ. On behalf of Petitioner Lopez Official P R O C E E D I N G S [: a.m.] CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: We'll hear argument first this morning in Lopez versus Gonzales and Toledo-Flores versus United States. Mr. Long. ORAL ARGUMENT OF ROBERT A. LONG, JR. ON BEHALF OF PETITIONER LOPEZ MR. LONG: Mr. Chief Justice, and may it please the Court: A drug-trafficking crime is defined in U.S. Code Section (c) as any felony punishable under the Controlled Substances Act or two other Federal statutes. "Punishable" is a key term. If that word is omitted, the remaining phrase, "any felony under the Controlled Substances Act," clearly refers to felony violations of the Controlled Substances Act. The parties agree that "punishable" means "subject to criminal sanctions." So, a "drug-trafficking crime," under (c), is conduct that is subject to being punished under the Controlled Substances Act. State felonies are not, themselves, punishable under the Controlled Substances Act. It is not a Federal crime to violate State law. The defendant's conduct may be punishable under both Federal and State law, but a Official State felony is not a felony punishable under the Controlled Substances Act. JUSTICE KENNEDY: Well, do you agree that if there were a State conviction for an offense that would have been punishable under the Federal law, their both being felonies, that enhancement can apply, in that instance, and that that does meet the definition? MR. LONG: Yes, Justice Kennedy. Our position is, if the conduct would violate a felony provision of the Controlled Substances Act or one of the other two Federal statutes, it then is a drug-trafficking crime under U.S. Code Section (c), and, therefore, it is an aggravated felony. But there are three additional textual indications, in addition to simply the "felony punishable" language, that misdemeanor offenses under the Controlled Substances Act are not drug-trafficking crimes under Section (c). The first one is, there are other provisions of Section -- (e), (g), and (k) -- where Congress actually used very similar language. It referred to conduct punishable under the Controlled Substances Act or the two other statutes, or offenses under the Controlled Substances Act or the two other Federal statutes. But then, it added an express reference to State offenses, so -- Official JUSTICE SCALIA: Where --MR. LONG: -- the implication is that when Congress meant to include State offenses, it said so. JUSTICE SCALIA: Where are those sections? MR. LONG: The -- you can find them; they're in the appendix to Lopez's blue brief, Justice Scalia --JUSTICE SCALIA: Okay. MR. LONG: -- and the provisions on (e), (g), and (k) -- begins on page A of the appendix, and (e) begins on A, and you can pick up -- (g) is on A, (k) is on A. JUSTICE SCALIA: What are the sections -- (b)? MR. LONG: They're subsections (e), (g), and (k). JUSTICE SCALIA: All right. CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, that doesn't carry too much weight, though, because the provision that -- I'm looking at (g)(), "violates any State law relating to any controlled substance," can be broader than what's punishable under the Federal Controlled Substances --MR. LONG: It --CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: -- Act. MR. LONG: It is a bit broader, Mr. Chief Justice, but if you look at all of these provisions, the implication is clearly that Congress was referring to Official State law when it meant to include State law. I mean, the -- if you looked at (e), for example, there it's a parallel construction; it's not broader. I think perhaps the government would say, "Well, we're talking about offenses." That's a little different from a felony, but "offenses" is actually a broader term. I'll mention an additional statute, which was not in the appendix -- U.S. Code Section (c)()(H). This provision -- it's a similar provision; it defines a "serious drug offense" as an offense that is punishable under the specific sections of the Controlled Substances Act, or an offense under State law that, had the offense been prosecuted in a court of the United States, would have been punishable under the CSA. An additional textual indication is, it's agreed -- and this Court has already said, in Gonzales against the United States, that a drug-trafficking crime under (c), under the criminal statute, must be a Federal crime. (c)()(A) refers to a crime that may be prosecuted in a court of the United States, and that clearly refers to a Federal crime. The definition of drug-trafficking crime, by its term, says it is for purposes of (c), so there is no reason why Congress would have wanted to include State felonies in a definition that applies to a Federal criminal provision Official that all concede applies only to Federal predicate offenses. And --JUSTICE ALITO: In --MR. LONG: -- the Government's interpretation would significantly broaden Section (c) to include Federal misdemeanors. JUSTICE ALITO: In U.S.C. (a)()(B), what, in your view, does the first phrase, "illicit trafficking in a controlled substance," add to the reference to a drug-trafficking crime --MR. LONG: Justice --JUSTICE ALITO: -- as defined by (c)? MR. LONG: Justice Alito, in our view, "illicit trafficking" means any offense that has a trafficking element -- that is, distribution, possession with intent to distribute, manufacture --JUSTICE ALITO: But are there any trafficking offenses that would not fall within (c) if you define a "trafficking offense" that way? MR. LONG: Yes. They're -- most offenses under the Controlled Substances Act are trafficking offenses. There are a few that are simple possession. There is a date-rape drug that I will not try to pronounce, but it's listed in U.S.C. Section --JUSTICE ALITO: Well, no, there -- Official MR. LONG: -- . JUSTICE ALITO: -- are possessory -- there are "mere possession" offenses that are outlawed by (c), but is it not the case that any -- if you interpret "trafficking" to mean trafficking in the way the word would be used in ordinary speech -- that any State trafficking offense you can think of would have a corresponding felony violation under the Controlled Substances Act, so that if you read the statute that way, the initial phrase is superfluous? MR. LONG: I believe the Government has a footnote in their brief where they suggest there are some State trafficking offenses that actually do not have a parallel in Federal law. Soliciting, I think, may be one of them. So, I think there are, in fact, some. And our position, of course, is that by adding illicit trafficking -- any trafficking offense, State or Federal, whether or not it is punishable under the Controlled Substances Act, is an aggravated felony. JUSTICE ALITO: Let me ask the same question a different way. If -- since (c) includes some "mere possession" offenses, and illicit trafficking in a controlled substance includes all violations of (c), doesn't that show that the way Congress used "illicit trafficking in a controlled substance" is not in the sense Official in which the term is used in ordinary speech, but's much broader, so that it can include "mere possession" offenses? MR. LONG: The -- Justice Alito, there is an argument -- it's developed in the brief of the American Bar Association -- that, because illicit trafficking is the general category, that all the aggravated felonies in this category should have a trafficking component; and, therefore, the felonies punishable under the Controlled Substances Act that are "simple possession" offenses should not, in fact, be included. That is not an argument that we have pressed in our brief. We read the phrase to say "illicit trafficking, including any felony punishable under the Controlled Substances Act." So, I would agree with you, to the extent that if it is a felony punishable under the Controlled Substances Act, Congress has said, by definition, that it is included in the category of illicit trafficking. JUSTICE BREYER: But that's ambiguous. That's perfectly ambiguous. Because, the case of your client, it is a felony, and it is punishable under the Controlled Substances Act. MR. LONG: Well, Justice Breyer, it is a misdemeanor under --JUSTICE BREYER: No, that's -- Official MR. LONG: -- the Controlled --JUSTICE BREYER: -- right. But it is a felony under South Dakota law. And what the statute says -- and that's the Government's argument -- they say "any felony punishable under the Controlled Substances Act." They don't mean, necessarily, any felony punishable as a felony under the Controlled Substances Act. MR. LONG: JUSTICE BREYER: It might mean anything that is Well -- a --MR. LONG: But --JUSTICE BREYER: -- felony, and --MR. LONG: But --JUSTICE BREYER: -- it is also punishable; in which case, you lose. But, in the first case, you win. MR. LONG: But, you know --JUSTICE BREYER: So, what am I supposed to look to, to decide which is --MR. LONG: Well, you could look to the case of Jerome against United States, which is -- which was a unanimous decision of this Court -- in which the Court held that the -- just the phrase "any felony" --JUSTICE BREYER: Uh-huh. MR. LONG: -- in the Federal bankruptcy statute should be interpreted to mean any Federal felony, so -- Official JUSTICE BREYER: Oh, but you don't mean that, because you're prepared to concede -- at least I thought you were, until your last argument -- you're prepared to concede that if a person engages in a crime that is punishable as a felony under South Dakota law, and it is also punishable as a felony under Federal law, under , et seq, well, that counts. MR. LONG: Well, but, I mean, the Government --JUSTICE BREYER: Do you --MR. LONG: -- accuses us --JUSTICE BREYER: Do you concede that --MR. LONG: The --JUSTICE BREYER: -- or not? MR. LONG: The Government accuses us of making that concession --Justice Breyer: No, no. MR. LONG: -- but we --JUSTICE BREYER: You --MR. LONG: -- really don't. JUSTICE BREYER: -- you say your answer is, you don't make the concession? MR. LONG: We really don't. I mean, we concede that if the -- I mean, - -- (c), the criminal statute, says nothing about State law. It says nothing about any conviction under Federal or State law. It's simply a Official question of whether the conduct is punishable, capable of being punished, under the Controlled Substances Act --JUSTICE KENNEDY: But I thought that --MR. LONG: -- the Federal statute. JUSTICE KENNEDY: -- was the concession you made in response to my --MR. LONG: Well --JUSTICE KENNEDY: -- question. MR. LONG: -- yes. I -- but I just want to be careful about the language in which we make --JUSTICE STEVENS: But you --MR. LONG: -- this concession --JUSTICE STEVENS: -- make the concession, as I understand it, because it's a Federal felony, not because it's a State felony --MR. LONG: Right. JUSTICE STEVENS: -- isn't that right? Yes. JUSTICE GINSBURG: Is it --MR. LONG: Precisely. JUSTICE GINSBURG: Is it -- if this is an ambiguous statute, do you -- what mileage do you get from Barrett? There is certainly an argument that what was --Congress was trying to do was to codify that practice of saying, "If there is analogous felony -- if there is analogous crime under State law, that should be included." And that made good sense. Official MR. LONG: Yes. If it's ambiguous, and you look to the legislative history, I think we get considerable mileage from Barrett. The Congress was pretty clear that what it was doing was codifying Barrett. The Barrett approach, which was then followed by the BIA for more than a decade, was that they would count State drug crimes, but only if they were felonies under the Federal statutes, under the Controlled Substances Act. So, I think we get considerable mileage out of that. JUSTICE GINSBURG: What --JUSTICE KENNEDY: You've --JUSTICE GINSBURG: -- about the --JUSTICE KENNEDY: -- answered Justice Breyer by citing the Jerome case. After Jerome, we decided United States vs. Gonzales, having to do with the consecutive or concurrent sentencing terms. And it -- are those two cases in some tension? Gonzales didn't mention Jerome. And I noticed that none of the briefs mentioned it either. Is there some tension in the cases? And, if so, is this a case where, when we write an opinion, whatever the outcome, we should talk about that? And, if that's so, what should we say? MR. LONG: I don't see any tension. Gonzales was just about consecutive versus concurrent sentences Official under State versus Federal law. I mean, the Court has applied that principle --JUSTICE KENNEDY: But it does --MR. LONG: For example, in Taylor --JUSTICE KENNEDY: -- it does seem to limit the broad statement in Jerome, without mentioning Jerome. MR. LONG: Well, but -- I mean, with respect, Justice Kennedy, I don't see how it limits it. And there have been other cases -- Taylor is an example -- where the Court adopted a single definition of "burglary" for purposes of (e). That applies the Jerome principle. I mean, it's a principle that has been applied in a number of this Court's cases. CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: But has it ever been applied in a -- to a statute that specifically says that the term "aggravated felony" applies to an offense described in this paragraph, whether in violation of Federal or State law? MR. LONG: Well --CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: That would seem to me to be a very express legislative repudiation of the Jerome --MR. LONG: Well --CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: -- principle. MR. LONG: -- when we get to that language, Mr. Chief Justice -- and I do think it helps the analysis to Official first decide, What is the definition of a "drug-trafficking crime" under (c), the criminal statute? Once you've decided that -- now, when you move back to the INA, there is this language. The term "aggravated felony" applies to an offense described in (a)(), whether in violation of Federal or State law, or the law of a foreign country. Now, we think that's pretty straightforward. It has to be an offense described. So, the simple example is money laundering. It -- the offense described in U.S. Code Section , "money laundering," is an aggravated felony. So, a violation of State law or of foreign law can be an aggravated felony, but only if it is the offense described in . If States or a foreign government has a broader definition of "money laundering," that can't count, because it's not the offense described. And when you turn to a drug-trafficking crime, the way that offense is described in (A)() is -- Congress picked up, in its entirety and without any modification, the definition of "drug-trafficking crime" in (c), a felony punishable under the Controlled Substances Act. So, if you agree that, in the criminal statute, that means a felony violation of the Controlled Substances Act, the offense described is the felonies in the Controlled Substances Act, not the felonies in the misdemeanors. And State -- if State law wants to call a Official -- something that's a misdemeanor under Federal law a felony, they can do that, but they can't expand the offense described. The offense described, the way Congress did that, is --JUSTICE STEVENS: But are you saying it would also include State trafficking offense, because it's described in the word "trafficking"? MR. LONG: Yes. I'm focusing on the definition of "drug-trafficking crime." It -- also, there's the illicit trafficking piece of this. And, I should add, any State offense that is illicit trafficking is going to be an aggravated felony. We recognize that. If there are no further questions, I'd like to reserve the balance of my time. CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, Mr. Long. Mr. Crooks, we'll hear now from you. ORAL ARGUMENT OF TIMOTHY CROOKS ON BEHALF OF PETITIONER TOLEDO-FLORES MR. CROOKS: Mr. Chief Justice, and may it please the Court: I would first like to address the Government's contention that Mr. Toledo-Flores's appeal is moot. His appeal of his sentence is not moot, primarily because he is still subject to the sentence that is the subject of that appeal. Even though Mr. Toledo-Flores was released Official from prison on April st of this year, and deported to Mexico, he's still subject to the supervised-release portion of his sentence, because supervised release is not automatically extinguished by deportation. CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: But there's no supervised release of people outside the United States. MR. CROOKS: There's no supervision of people outside the United States, Mr. Chief Justice, but he is still subject to the jurisdiction of the District Court, and still subject to the conditions of supervised release that are not dependent upon supervision. CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, like what? MR. CROOKS: Well, for example, he shall not excessively use alcohol, he shall not associate with persons who --CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: What's going to happen to him if he does that? MR. CROOKS: If the District Court learns about it he could be violated -- he could be extradited back from Mexico, and he could face up to a year more in prison. CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Has anything like that ever happened before with people subject to supervised release who are then deported? It would be the first time, if the District Court did that, right? Official MR. CROOKS: There have been instances in the case law where people on supervised release have been extradited back from foreign countries based on violations of their supervised release. But the point is, under the statutory scheme, Mr. Toledo-Flores is still subject to the District Court's jurisdiction. The District Court retains jurisdiction to modify his supervised release, to change the conditions, or to cut the supervised release. If the District Court learns of a violation and a violation warrant is filed within the supervised-release period then the supervised-release period is effectively tolled and the District Court --JUSTICE GINSBURG: And that --MR. CROOKS: -- retains --JUSTICE GINSBURG: -- that period has how many months to run? MR. CROOKS: Until April th of next year, Your Honor. JUSTICE GINSBURG: Do you -- you said you rely primarily on that argument -- do you have another argument? MR. CROOKS: Yes, we do, Your Honor. After April th, of course, in accordance with this Court's decisions in Spencer v. Kemna and Lane v. Williams, the Court needs to look for a collateral consequence of the Official then-expired sentence. And, in this case, we point to the possibility that a retrospective reduction in the term of imprisonment -- which, of course, will not give excess prison time back to Mr. Toledo-Flores -- but even to reduce the number of the sentence, on paper, could be a favorable factor for him to get a waiver of inadmissibility, should he ever want to get a nonimmigrant visa in the future to come visit his U.S.-citizen children. JUSTICE SCALIA: We have a case involving standing which says that -- you know, the doctrine of standing is more than a -- an exercise in the -- in the conceivable. And this seems to me an exercise in the conceivable. Nobody thinks your client is really, you know, abstaining from tequila down in Mexico because he's on supervised release in the United States, or is going --is going to apply -- having been deported from the country for criminal offenses, is going to apply to come back in the -- these are ingenious exercises in the conceivable. This is just not the real world. MR. CROOKS: Well, my answer to that, Justice Scalia, is that this Court has never said that an appeal of a sentence may become moot before that sentence is expired. And in cases like Lane v. Williams and Spencer v. Kemna, the sentences were completely expired, and, Official therefore, the Court had to look for collateral consequences of the now-expired sentence. Here, in consequence -- in contrast, Mr. Toledo-Flores is still under the sentence, which is a direct consequence --JUSTICE SCALIA: That depends on whether you consider the sentence to be effectively expired once he leaves the country, if the sentence is one of supervised release, which is impossible once he leaves the country. Supervision being impossible, supervised release is not a realistic consequence of the prior conviction. MR. CROOKS: But that argument could be made with respect to a person who is in the United States, who is subject to a term of probation where the only condition is that he not further violate the law. In that --CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, no, because --MR. CROOKS: -- instance --CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: -- in that -- in that instance, action can be taken against him if he does further violate the law under the terms of probation. The point is that the jurisdiction of the probation office or the District Court doesn't extend to Mexico. MR. CROOKS: Well, that's true. But if we're talking about future violations of the law, it is very often the case that persons who are deported to Mexico do come back, and do have their supervised release -- Official CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well --MR. CROOKS: -- revoked. CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: -- you don't want to say that your case is not moot because your client is going to violate the law again in the future. MR. CROOKS: No, not at all, Your Honor, but I'm saying that, in the respect that you just talked about for the U.S. citizen, it's not any different, that the court retains jurisdiction to violate the supervised release, and to revoke it, and then to send him back to prison. JUSTICE SOUTER: No, but it is different, in the respect that he would first have to violate the law by entering the United States. MR. CROOKS: That is true. But in most cases, that is the only violation of supervised release for which they are later revoked. And, in that respect, it would be no different from a person who violates his probation by driving while intoxicated or committing some other legal violation. JUSTICE BREYER: Do you work in --JUSTICE GINSBURG: On --JUSTICE BREYER: -- this area? JUSTICE GINSBURG: On collateral consequences, do you have -- what is your best authority to say that in -- it would keep this case from being moot? Official MR. CROOKS: We cited, in our reply brief at page , Your Honor, the Hamdi case, United States v. Hamdi, from the Second Circuit, where the Second Circuit found that the possibility of reducing the term of imprisonment, even retrospectively, could have an impact on the ability to get a waiver of inadmissibility in --JUSTICE GINSBURG: Because --MR. CROOKS: -- the future. JUSTICE GINSBURG: Because the length of the sentence counts heavily in the attorney general's assessment, is that --MR. CROOKS: That's correct, Your Honor. In Hamdi, they pointed out that the length of the sentence goes to two of the three factors that are evaluated by Immigration officials -- under a decision called Matter of Heronka -- that are used in evaluating whether a person should be granted a waiver of inadmissibility in the discretion of the attorney general --JUSTICE SCALIA: Do you think there's a realistic possibility that this person is going to be readmitted? A realistic possibility? MR. CROOKS: I do not know, Your Honor. He's --JUSTICE SCALIA: Oh. MR. CROOKS: -- got U.S. citizen --JUSTICE SCALIA: Do you think there's a Official realistic possibility he's going to try to get readmitted, so that he can be subjected to really enforced supervised release? MR. CROOKS: Well, I think that there is a possibility that he -- he could qualify for a nonimmigrant visa at some point --JUSTICE SCALIA: Has he applied for such a visa? Has he expressed any intention to apply? MR. CROOKS: He has not, Your Honor, but he does have U.S.-citizen --JUSTICE SCALIA: Well --MR. CROOKS: -- children --JUSTICE SCALIA: -- then it's an exercise in the conceivable, it seems to me. MR. CROOKS: But this Court has never held that a -- it would be unfair to hold that an appeal of a sentence can be moot while that sentence is still in effect, and when it can still have consequences for Mr. Toledo-Flores. And that's what distinguishes this case from all the other cases decided by this Court, is that the sentence itself is the concrete and continuing injury that defeats --JUSTICE STEVENS: May I --MR. CROOKS: -- mootness in this case. JUSTICE STEVENS: -- ask this question? It's -- Official presuming -- supposing we say it's not moot, and you prevail. Could he be resentenced without being present in court? MR. CROOKS: Yes, he could, Your Honor. We do resentencing in absentia all the time in the Southern District of Texas --JUSTICE BREYER: In the Southern --MR. CROOKS: -- in circumstances that are similar. JUSTICE BREYER: In the -- have you ever heard of, or had, a client -- or heard of a person from Mexico who had been deported because he has been involved in drugs, and the Government wants to bring him back because he may be a witness -- maybe something develops, some other members of the gang are there, they'd like his information? MR. CROOKS: That does happen occasionally. People are paroled, then, to testify in court proceedings or to cooperate with Federal --JUSTICE BREYER: So, if --MR. CROOKS: -- or State --JUSTICE BREYER: -- they pick up some friends of his who are engaged in drugs, the Government might decide to try to get him back. MR. CROOKS: That's correct, Your Honor. Official JUSTICE SCALIA: Is there any indication that that's in the works, or is this just another conceivable thing? MR. CROOKS: There is no indication in the record --JUSTICE SCALIA: Yes. MR. CROOKS: -- that that is in the work. I do want to point out that --JUSTICE BREYER: Well, it's conceivable, I guess, that people will break their parole. Often it doesn't happen; sometimes it does. Sometimes they want to get him back; sometimes they don't. MR. CROOKS: That's all very true, Justice Breyer. I wanted to point out that, in Campo Serrano, which we've cited in our brief, this Court held that a deported alien's probation term was a continuing criminal sentence that saved the case from mootness. And the Court pointed to the fact that he -- that the deported alien in Campo Serrano could, just like Mr. Toledo-Flores, have his conditional release revoked, and he could be reimprisoned, upon a finding that he had violated his conditions. And we believe that Campo Serrano points very strongly in the direction that this case is not moot. On the merits, I would just like to point out Official that the interpretation that is advanced by the petitioners here promotes the very sort of uniformity that this Court has found desirable in cases like Jerome v. United States and its progeny, including Taylor v. United States, in that the same conduct of conviction will have the same immigration and same Federal sentencing consequences, irrespective of the labels or maximum prison terms affixed by the particular States that set out that conduct. And --CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, Counsel. MR. CROOKS: Thank you. CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Mr. Kneedler. ORAL ARGUMENT OF EDWIN S. KNEEDLER ON BEHALF OF RESPONDENTS MR. KNEEDLER: Mr. Chief Justice, and may it please the Court: In order for a State drug offense to be an aggravated felony under Section (a)()(B) of the INA, two -- there are two requirements. The underlying conduct must be punishable under the Controlled Substances Act or one of the other specified Federal statutes, and it must be a felony. Because Petitioner's underlying conduct here was punishable under the Controlled Substances Act, and was a felony under State law, they are -- they were properly Official found to have committed aggravated felonies. That conclusion follows, not just from Section (c), but, more importantly, by the fact that what is relevant here is, What is the meaning of (a)(), which is the operative provision, which just happens to incorporate the definition of "drug-trafficking crime" from (c)? And there are three features of (a)() with --JUSTICE KENNEDY: Why don't you say "it just happens"? I mean --MR. KNEEDLER: No. No. But -- no, but -- yes. No, it's --JUSTICE KENNEDY: -- it's there in the statute. MR. KNEEDLER: It's -- I'm sorry. JUSTICE KENNEDY: That's why you're here. MR. KNEEDLER: It expressly incorporates it, yes. Yes. But the -- but the operative provision is section (a)() of the INA, and there are three features of that that we think reinforce this conclusion. The first is that the consequences of aggravated felony status under the INA turn on whether one is convicted, not whether they have committed the crime, and that's true both with respect to the enhancement of sentences under and the -- and the immigration consequences. And we think it makes particular sense when you're talking about a conviction to look about how the -- to look at how the Official crime is treated under the jurisdiction of conviction. JUSTICE SCALIA: I thought the Government has taken the position -- and as far as I know, all the Courts of Appeals have bought the Government's argument -- that there -- you do not need a conviction --MR. KNEEDLER: You do --JUSTICE SCALIA: -- that so --MR. KNEEDLER: -- not need a conviction under Section if you're bringing a prosecution under Section (c). JUSTICE SCALIA: Yes. You don't --MR. KNEEDLER: You do not -- you do not need a conviction. But, in order -- the immigration consequences --JUSTICE SCALIA: Yes, but --MR. KNEEDLER: -- have been --JUSTICE SCALIA: -- but (c) is incorporated in (a)(). It's --MR. KNEEDLER: Right. JUSTICE SCALIA: -- incorporated. So, you want us to interpret (c) one way for criminal convictions --a criminal sentence -- that is, you don't need a conviction in order to get the enhancement -- but another way for --MR. KNEEDLER: No. Official JUSTICE SCALIA: -- for the INA? MR. KNEEDLER: Our point is not that (c) requires a conviction when it's in the Immigration Act, it's that the immigration consequences of that incorporation turn on whether someone was convicted of an aggravated felony. JUSTICE SCALIA: Why is --MR. KNEEDLER: So --JUSTICE SCALIA: -- that? MR. KNEEDLER: Well, the ground of deportation that refers to "aggravated felony" refers to someone who has been convicted of an aggravated felony. The ineligibility for cancellation of removal turns on whether someone has been convicted of an aggravated felony, and the enhanced penalties under Section for someone whose illegal reentry, following aggravated felony, is for a conviction for an aggravated felony. So, my point is that, under the INA, the consequences turn on conviction, and it makes sense to look at the jurisdiction of conviction -- here, State law -- to see whether it -- to look at the -- to determine the status of the crime. And since State law determines it to be a felony, that's the -- JUSTICE GINSBURG: Mr. Kneedler --MR. KNEEDLER: -- proper place to look. Official JUSTICE GINSBURG: -- if there is room for more than one construction of this statute, it seems to me unseemly, in the immigration context, to say that two people who have committed the identical acts, one of them is barred from ever coming back, doesn't have any of the dispensations, and the other does, because of the happenstance of the State in which they were convicted. That kind of disuniformity in an area where the Constitution expressly charges Congress with authority to make uniform laws, it's -- doesn't that uniform-law specification in the Constitution tug in the direction of the interpretation that Mr. Long was --MR. KNEEDLER: No, we --JUSTICE GINSBURG: -- presenting to us? MR. KNEEDLER: -- we think it does, for several reasons. First, with respect to the constitutional requirement, the uniformity provision applies to uniform rules of naturalization; that is, citizenship. This --we're not talking about citizenship here, we're talking --we're talking about the eligibility of aliens to remain in the country. Beyond that, even where the Uniformity Clause applies -- and there's, for example, a parallel Uniformity Clause for bankruptcy -- that's never been interpreted to mean that consequences of certain conduct under State law can have no impact on bankruptcy law, and Official that there can't be a variation. The State-law homestead exemption under the -- under the bankruptcy laws is a good example of that. But, going beyond that, with respect to the issue of uniformity generally, Congress has established uniform standards in Section , either in terms of identifying the conduct in certain instances; in other instances, by identifying the minimum sentence that was actually imposed. In this case, we think, with respect to drug-trafficking crimes, it -- it's imposed a uniform standard, in terms of the length of the sentence; it has to be a felony. That's -- that is uniformity. But the -- to answer your point more directly, it is a principle throughout (a)() that one looks to State law, not to -- not to a -- some supposed uniform standard of Federal law. And, for example, if you --several subparagraphs -- and if you'll -- (a)() is set out at page (a) of the appendix to our brief --three subparagraphs -- (j), (q), and (t) -- refer to the sentence that may be imposed for a violation. Well, when you're talking about a State conviction, that's clearly referring to the sentence that may be imposed under State law for a conviction. Four other subparagraphs -- (f), (g), (r), and (s) -- turn on the sentence that was actually imposed. That means that -- in the case of a Official State crime, as we have here, that State law has to authorize the sentence, and that the State Court, applying State sentencing principles, has actually imposed a crime of -- for -- of at least year. So, it is -- it is infused in Section (a)() that, in fact, you do look to the consequences of an offense under State law. JUSTICE BREYER: I'm prepared to accept perfect ambiguity here, linguistically. And I thought of an empirical question, that you may know the answer to, that might shed some light. Now, going along the way -- maybe I'm making a mistake to point it out, if I am -- but I go to the key thing here, which is the words in (c), What is a "drug-trafficking crime"? A "drug-trafficking crime" is a crime -- "any felony punishable under the Controlled Substances Act." That could mean an act, physically, that is a felony under some law, and is also punishable under the Controlled Substances Act as a misdemeanor. Okay? Felony under -- it could pick that up. And it also could mean any conduct which is punishable as a felony under the Controlled Substances Act. And I could look at those words a thousand times and not have a clue which it means. So, I thought of an empirical test. This statute, (c), happens to be a statute that, if you engage in a drug-trafficking crime, as defined, and you Official have a gun with you, you get mandatory years. That's the point of it. And the Government does all the prosecuting. So, in how many cases where a person committed a misdemeanor offense, simple possession, and had a gun, did the Government insist that they get the -years minimum? Now, if you're prepared to tell me "a lot of 'em," I'm prepared to tell you, the Government has consistently interpreted the statute the way you are now. But if you're prepared to tell me "zero," I would say I would be suspicious of an interpretation that comes along now for the first time. And my mind is open on it. I'm quite interested in the answer. MR. KNEEDLER: To my knowledge, we have not brought crime -- prosecutions under (c)(), based on the circumstances you posit, but that's --JUSTICE BREYER: But if --MR. KNEEDLER: -- but I don't think that that goes very far with respect to answering this question. For one thing, as this Court pointed out in the Gonzales decision, the requirement that there be a Federal crime, and, therefore, a Federal felony under (c)(), comes from the language in (c)() that says that the crime must be subject to prosecution in a court of the United States. And this Court, in Gonzales, said it's that language that renders the -- renders it a requirement that Official it be a Federal crime. The definition of --JUSTICE BREYER: No, no. We both agree. All --everybody agrees here. It doesn't have to be a Federal crime. MR. KNEEDLER: It doesn't have to be --JUSTICE BREYER: And --MR. KNEEDLER: -- under --JUSTICE BREYER: Correct, it doesn't have --MR. KNEEDLER: Right. JUSTICE BREYER: -- to be. It could be conduct that violates the State law, but -- and punish it under the State law -- but the conduct involved would have to constitute what is a felony under the Controlled Substances --MR. KNEEDLER: Would have to --JUSTICE BREYER: -- Act. MR. KNEEDLER: -- in our view, it would have to constitute --JUSTICE BREYER: A felony or a misdemeanor. MR. KNEEDLER: -- it would have to be punishable under the Controlled Substances --JUSTICE BREYER: Yes. MR. KNEEDLER: -- Act. JUSTICE BREYER: All right. MR. KNEEDLER: But the important point here is -- Official JUSTICE BREYER: All right. So, I say it's suspicious. MR. KNEEDLER: But the question is not what (c)() means, standing alone or in the abstract; it's what it means, as incorporated into (a)(). And --CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: And, of --MR. KNEEDLER: -- there --CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: -- course, that's --when you get to that, it must give you pause that your analysis is of a term, "drug-trafficking crime" or "illicit trafficking," and your theory leads to the conclusion that simple possession equates with drug trafficking. MR. KNEEDLER: Well, the Petitioner has conceded, as I understand it -- I heard Mr. Long, I think, concede -- that possession offenses can constitute aggravated felonies under this provision, that there is the recidivist possession, there is the possession of the date-rape drug, there is possession of grams or more of cocaine. All of those are specified as being -- of being felonies under the -- under -- or . But, beyond that, it's important to take into account that a lot of State statutes dealing with drugs do not -- are not patterned directly after the Federal statute, and there's Official no reason why Congress would have insisted that they do so in order for this statute to operate sensibly. And one notable example, for instance, is, when it comes to possession of a substantial amount of drugs, that that certainly would create a strong implication that the defendant was engaged in trafficking activities, or intended to. The Federal statute deals with that by making it a felony to possess with intent to distribute the drug. A number of States don't do that. They, instead, have graduated possession offenses, based on the quantity of drugs that the defendant is possessing; that above a certain quantity of drugs, it would be a felony. They're getting at the same problem, but they've come at it in a different way. JUSTICE GINSBURG: Then, in those cases, you can say the conduct would constitute a felony under the Federal statute; but here, if I recall correctly, the amount involved would not have qualified for possession with intent to distribute, under Federal law. MR. KNEEDLER: Well, it would always be up to the jury to decide that. Now, in Mr. Lopez's case, he was -- he was initially charged with a series of offenses that went beyond the aiding and abetting of possession that he ultimately pleaded guilty to, but, as he testified in his Official -- in his immigration hearing, his aiding and abetting of possession was assisting someone in purchasing drugs, which was, itself, a trafficking element. And so, this shows that the way the State crimes are defined or applied are often getting at what Federal law --JUSTICE STEVENS: Yes. We have a case in which we're assuming, for our purposes, we just have possession. I mean, I understand the facts of this case. And I wanted to ask -- I have two questions, Mr. Kneedler. One of them -- the second one, I'd ask that -- you were going to mention three different points, one about conviction; you had two other points you didn't get to. I want to learn what those were. But, before that, it seems to me that, when you put the whole statute -- all the -- all the different statutory provisions together, you really boil down and focus on (c)() and the words "for purpose of this subsection, the term 'drug-trafficking crime' means any felony punishable under the Controlled Substances Act." And if the word "Federal" had been inserted before the word "felony" in the statute, would that not make the statute perfectly clear? MR. KNEEDLER: It probably would, but I think it's interesting that the version of (c) that was in effect prior to said exactly that. It said "felony violation of Federal law." Official JUSTICE STEVENS: It was a question of --MR. KNEEDLER: It was -- it was explicit. JUSTICE STEVENS: -- whether the change was intended to be --MR. KNEEDLER: Well, but --JUSTICE STEVENS: -- substantive --MR. KNEEDLER: -- Congress --JUSTICE STEVENS: -- or merely --MR. KNEEDLER: But --JUSTICE STEVENS: -- stylistic. MR. KNEEDLER: -- Congress did change it, in the Act, but it did it -- and this is significant -- it did it in connection with two changes in the immigration law. One is the enactment of the definition of "aggravated felony," which, as I have explained, the definition of "aggravated felony" looks to State law, in a number of respects, in terms of the severity of the offense or the punishment actually imposed. That was one change. The other change that was made in the Act was to amend Section with respect to illegal reentries, and it did that by enhancing the penalty for conviction of any felony other than an aggravated felony, and an aggravated felony. And certainly the conviction of any felony includes State law offenses in this -- Official JUSTICE STEVENS: Just again, Mr. Kneedler --focusing again on that specific language, you're saying, in effect, that that phrase means any State or Federal felony punishable under the Federal statutes. MR. KNEEDLER: It says -- yes, it says "any felony." And that is our -- doing it -- and what --JUSTICE STEVENS: And is it ever true that a State felony is punishable under a Federal statute? MR. KNEEDLER: The conduct is --JUSTICE STEVENS: Yes, I know, but --MR. KNEEDLER: -- punishable. The conduct is punishable, not --JUSTICE STEVENS: -- but do you know of any instance where we've said a State felony is punishable under a Federal statute? MR. KNEEDLER: I think not -- I think not used in that sense, but I think it's important -- it's important to look at the language, as a whole. It does not say "punishable as a felony under" --JUSTICE STEVENS: But you do agree --MR. KNEEDLER: -- "under the Controlled" --JUSTICE STEVENS: -- that the key to the case is how we read that one sentence. MR. KNEEDLER: Well, no, I agree that the -- I --in my view, the key to the case is in (a)(), Official because, if you look at the structure of (a)() --and this gets to the question you -- you said -- you mentioned that I had three reasons. One is that under the -- under the INA, the conviction consequences turn on the conviction of an aggravated felony, and it only makes sense to look at the jurisdiction of conviction to determine the nature of the crime, whether it's a felony. JUSTICE SCALIA: Well, but you don't -- you don't look to the jurisdiction of conviction. Are you telling me you require a conviction? You -- I thought you told me you don't require a conviction. MR. KNEEDLER: No. Under (c), you don't. But under the -- under the -- if you're bringing a Federal prosecution under (c), the term "aggravated felony" has no role in that determination. It is a -- it is a separate Federal crime. We're talking about, here, the consequences of -- the consequences of being an aggravated felon under (a)() are, Where does the definition of "aggravated felony" apply? It only applies under the INA if someone has been convicted of an aggravated felony. You're only -- you're only subject to deportation for aggravated felony if you've been convicted, you're ineligible for cancellation or removal, you're subject to sentence enhancement. All those things follow on conviction. And we think it only makes sense to look to Official the jurisdiction of conviction. That is --JUSTICE SOUTER: All right, Mr. Kneedler, assuming that -- as I understand it, the answer you just gave, your second point, as well as the point that you and Justice Stevens were debating, turns, in your view, on a definition, or a reading, of the statute that would work this way: that if, under State law, the act were a felony, but, under Federal law, the action was merely a misdemeanor, it would still, for purposes of this definition, be an aggravated felony. MR. KNEEDLER: That's correct. JUSTICE SOUTER: That -- isn't that very strange, that Congress would have wanted a reading of the statute that would turn its definition of a "misdemeanor crime" into an aggravated felony for purposes of the immigration law? MR. KNEEDLER: I don't think so at all. And for one -- for one thing -- as I've mentioned, the structure of the act, as a whole, of (a)() -- and there are numerous subsections -- look to how the crime -- what the authorized punishment was, or look to how the person was actually sentenced under State law, not under Federal law. No, but I'm --JUSTICE SOUTER: MR. KNEEDLER: And I --JUSTICE SOUTER: -- saying, if -- Official MR. KNEEDLER: No -- I --JUSTICE SOUTER: No, go ahead. MR. KNEEDLER: I also haven't mentioned the explicit provision, that one of the other Justices mentioned earlier -- I think, the Chief Justice -- that the penultimate sentence of (a)() says that something -- a -- an offense constitutes an aggravated felony, whether in violation of Federal or State laws. JUSTICE SOUTER: Well --MR. KNEEDLER: So --JUSTICE SOUTER: -- I know it says that, but that doesn't necessarily take you any further than saying that if the words of the statute refer to something that could be a State law felony, under the -- under the penultimate sentence, it will count. It does not necessarily answer the question that we have, and that is whether a particular reference in the statute is a reference to a Federal felony or a State felony. So, it has a -- the penultimate sentence has work to do. And, in fact, we can see the work being done in the -- in the very definition of "drug trafficking" -- but it doesn't necessarily lead to the conclusion that you draw from it. MR. KNEEDLER: Well, we think -- we think it is quite a -- we think it's a strong confirmation of the pattern in (a)(), that the statute looks to what Official happened in State Court, and the State punishment that was authorized there, and the express mention of that -- or --JUSTICE SOUTER: Even when --MR. KNEEDLER: -- requirement. JUSTICE SOUTER: -- the consequence, in effect, is to turn for -- turn the gravity of the Federal misdemeanor into the gravity of --MR. KNEEDLER: But the --JUSTICE SOUTER: -- a felony that --MR. KNEEDLER: -- the Federal Controlled --JUSTICE SOUTER: -- just happens to be a State felony. MR. KNEEDLER: The Federal Controlled Substances Act does not occupy the field of drug control in the country, any more than any other Federal crime occupies that field. And --JUSTICE SOUTER: No, I realize that. But, if we're asking, "What is important in the mind of Congress, for purposes of the immigration law?" one would suppose that the most obvious touchstone of importance is the way Federal law deals with it -- i.e., in the case of a crime, whether Federal law calls it a felony or Federal law calls it a misdemeanor. You know, in your reading, when Federal law calls it a misdemeanor, if State law calls it a felony, it becomes a Federal felony for the immigration Official law. And that's what seems to me odd. MR. KNEEDLER: Right. And this is not the only place where that consequence can arise. There are --there are cases involving "What's a crime of violence?" which is -- which, under subparagraph (g), is another aggravated felony. The crime of violence is defined in U.S.C. Section , subsection (b) of that -- this Court considered that statute in Leocal -- requires that the offense be a felony which creates a serious risk of physical harm. The courts have looked to the State law of conviction to determine whether something is a felony --JUSTICE SCALIA: Mr. Kneedler, could --JUSTICE SOUTER: Yes, but --MR. KNEEDLER: -- under that provision. JUSTICE SOUTER: May I just ask one --JUSTICE SCALIA: Sure. JUSTICE SOUTER: It's one thing to turn to State law to get an answer where there is no other answer. The problem here is that State law and Federal law are at odds in determining the gravity of the offense. The Federal law, on my hypothesis, would say, "It is minor; it's just a misdemeanor." The State says, "No, it is a felony." It seems to me very odd, given the tension between the State and Federal classifications, to say that, for Federal purposes, the State classification is going to trump the Official Federal classification; and that's a different situation from the one you posit. MR. KNEEDLER: Well, and -- if I could just mention one other -- on other example, under the theft-offense category in subsection -- I think it's (f) --where a theft offense is deemed to be an aggravated felony if a sentence of at least year was imposed. There are misdemeanor offenses there that -- as a matter of Federal law, it can be a misdemeanor for certain types of theft offenses; and yet, they are covered as aggravated felonies. And, again, that would --JUSTICE SCALIA: Mr. Kneedler, could I ask you about your assertion that you "look to the State of conviction"? What do you mean by that? For purposes of . Does that mean, if you're convicted, in State court, of a misdemeanor -- and even though that action would be a Federal felony, it's not an aggravated felony? MR. KNEEDLER: That is our position, yes. Because the requirement -- the --JUSTICE SCALIA: So, it's sort of a double inconsistency. Not only do you treat State -- State actions that are -- that are minimal -- I'm sorry, where the State treats it more seriously than the Federal Government, not only do you follow the State, but, where the State treats it less leniently than the Federal Official Government, you also follow the State. MR. KNEEDLER: Well, and --JUSTICE SCALIA: Is that right? MR. KNEEDLER: Yes. And we -- yes. We think that's --JUSTICE SCALIA: So, you look to the State of conviction. What --MR. KNEEDLER: that's --JUSTICE SCALIA: That's for purposes of the immigration law. MR. KNEEDLER: Of the immigration law. And, again, we think that --JUSTICE SCALIA: Okay. Now, do you do the same for purposes of the felony enhancement provision? MR. KNEEDLER: (c)? No, you don't, because --JUSTICE SCALIA: You --MR. KNEEDLER: -- the aggravated-felony question has no -- has no -- the "aggravated felony" term has no operative significance under --JUSTICE SCALIA: Well, that seems to me --MR. KNEEDLER: -- itself. JUSTICE SCALIA: -- very strange. You would look to the -- you would look to the State law for purposes of the immigration section; but, for purposes of (c), what would you look to? Either one. Either one. Whichever --Official MR. KNEEDLER: No, --JUSTICE SCALIA: -- whichever -- for --whichever one would make it a felony. MR. KNEEDLER: No, under --JUSTICE SCALIA: You lose. MR. KNEEDLER: -- under (c)(), this Court --this Court, in the Gonzales case, said that it -- that it has to be a Federal crime, but not because of the --JUSTICE SCALIA: Yes. MR. KNEEDLER: -- definition in --JUSTICE SCALIA: Right. MR. KNEEDLER: -- (c)() --JUSTICE SCALIA: All right. MR. KNEEDLER: -- but --JUSTICE SCALIA: If it's a felony under either one, for purposes of (c), you lose, right? MR. KNEEDLER: I don't think I --JUSTICE SCALIA: If the act is either a State felony or a Federal felony, you lose. I mean, the defendant gets the enhanced sentence, right, under (c)? MR. KNEEDLER: No. JUSTICE SCALIA: No? MR. KNEEDLER: Under (c), the cases that have been brought have all been situations where it is a Official Federal offense. But, because -- not because of the language in (c)() --JUSTICE SCALIA: Well --MR. KNEEDLER: -- but because of the -- of the language --JUSTICE SCALIA: Listen. MR. KNEEDLER: -- in (c)(). JUSTICE SCALIA: Listen. My question is a simple one. If it's -- it seems to me, if it's -- what you're saying is, if it is either a felony under Federal law or a felony under State law, you get the enhanced sentence under (c), isn't that right? MR. KNEEDLER: I -- my understanding of the way (c)() has operated is that if it is a misdemeanor under Federal law, but maybe it would be a Federal felony, it would not be -- it would not give rise to the enhancement, because it is not a --JUSTICE SCALIA: I thought that's --MR. KNEEDLER: -- it --JUSTICE SCALIA: -- what the whole argument is about, whether it has to be a felony under Federal law. You're telling me, if it's a misdemeanor under Federal law, that you don't get --MR. KNEEDLER: But not --JUSTICE SCALIA: -- the enhanced sentence? Official MR. KNEEDLER: -- but not under -- not under (c)() --JUSTICE BREYER: But why not? MR. KNEEDLER: -- the definitional --JUSTICE SCALIA: You've thoroughly confused me now. JUSTICE BREYER: But (c)() says that if you have a gun, and you have a drug-trafficking crime, book, years. Okay, now we go to two, what's a "drug-trafficking crime"? It means any felony punishable under the -- under the Controlled Substances Act. Now, in your definition, we first look to see whether simple possession is punishable under the -- in Controlled Substances Act. It sure is. It sure is. It's punishable as a misdemeanor. So, it meets that. Under your definition, is it a felony? Yup, it's a felony in South Dakota. Okay. So, now we've got a prosecution, in Federal Court in South Dakota. And, on your reading of the statute, that guy should get a bump-up of years. MR. KNEEDLER: No, that is not our reading of the statute. The --JUSTICE BREYER: Because? MR. KNEEDLER: The only thing that is incorporated into (a)() is the definition in (c)() -- not (c)(), the definition of --Official JUSTICE BREYER: Yes. MR. KNEEDLER: -- of "drug-trafficking crime" in (c)(), which says --JUSTICE BREYER: Yes. MR. KNEEDLER: -- "felony punishable under the Controlled" --JUSTICE BREYER: Right. MR. KNEEDLER: -- "Substances Act." JUSTICE BREYER: Right. MR. KNEEDLER: That is what gets plugged into --JUSTICE BREYER: That's correct. MR. KNEEDLER: -- (a)- --JUSTICE BREYER: Right. MR. KNEEDLER: -- -(). JUSTICE BREYER: Right. MR. KNEEDLER: Along with all of the other provisions in (a)(), you look to State law, in the case of a State offense -- the State of conviction, the jurisdiction --JUSTICE BREYER: Yes. MR. KNEEDLER: -- of conviction -- to determine the nature of the crime. JUSTICE BREYER: But you still have to know whether that word, "felony," in () means "any felony punishable as a felony under the Controlled" --Official MR. KNEEDLER: Right. And --JUSTICE BREYER: -- "Substances Act." MR. KNEEDLER: And --JUSTICE BREYER: And there --MR. KNEEDLER: -- a number --JUSTICE BREYER: Yeah. You have to know the answer to that. MR. KNEEDLER: -- a number of Courts of Appeals that have looked at this in the sentencing context over the years have concluded that it -- that the absence of that language is very significant, and the presence of the language that says "any felony" is also significant. JUSTICE SCALIA: Never mind sentencing, let's get back to the immigration. If I understand what you're now saying, if you're convicted in State Court of action that is a Federal felony, but it's just a State misdemeanor -- right? -- you look to the State of conviction, and it would be a misdemeanor, and the immigration provisions would not -- would not take effect. Is --MR. KNEEDLER: Yes. JUSTICE SCALIA: -- that right? MR. KNEEDLER: And that -- and that -- that's not true -- Official JUSTICE SCALIA: That's extraordinary. MR. KNEEDLER: No, but it's -- that's not --only true under this provision of (a)(). The other -- the other provisions -- (f) and (g) and (j) and (q) and (t) that I mentioned, that looked to the sentence that may be imposed under State law, or that was actually imposed -- would, likewise, render someone in that situation who was convicted of only a misdemeanor in State Court -- even though it might be a felony under Federal law, they would not be -- they would not be convicted of an aggravated felony, because --JUSTICE GINSBURG: Mr. Kneedler --MR. KNEEDLER: -- of the way Congress chose to write (a)(). JUSTICE STEVENS: But is --JUSTICE GINSBURG: Do you --JUSTICE STEVENS: -- that a reasonable -- let's say the statute's ambiguous, and you've convinced us there's no constitutional requirement of uniformity. But is it reasonable to assume that Congress would want the different consequences to depend on the State of conviction? MR. KNEEDLER: I think it is. I mean, they're --JUSTICE STEVENS: Is there anything in the legislative history suggesting that? Official MR. KNEEDLER: I think -- as I say, I think it's on face of the statute. JUSTICE GINSBURG: Barrett suggests otherwise. If what Congress was trying to do was to codify that practice of looking for an analogous crime under State law, that's -- that seems to me the -- at least what Congress was trying do. MR. KNEEDLER: Well, that -- the legislative history of the amendment in does not discuss the aspect of Barrett that went to the comparison to decide what -- in what circumstances there would be an analogous Federal crime. It was clear that it wanted to ratify the result that State crimes are covered. But we think that that was evident from the amendments to -- that both enacted the definition of "aggravated felony," revised the definition of "drug-trafficking crime" to delete the requirement that it be a Federal felony -- that was deleted in -- and enhanced sentences --JUSTICE GINSBURG: You --MR. KNEEDLER: -- under , clearly on the --on -- by reference to whether someone was convicted of a State felony, without any -- without any general Federal minimum. Official JUSTICE GINSBURG: May I --MR. KNEEDLER: What Congress --JUSTICE GINSBURG: May I just switch gears for a moment, because your time is almost up, and we -- you haven't addressed the mootness problem in Toledo-Flores. MR. KNEEDLER: In Toledo-Flores. JUSTICE GINSBURG: Is the Second Circuit wrong in U.S. v. Hamdi? Because it seems to me that U.S. v. Hamdi is on all fours with respect to mootness. MR. KNEEDLER: Yes. We think it is wrong, be --under this Court's decision in Spencer versus Kemna and other cases, that, if the possible consequence turns on a discretionary judgment that may be made by someone else, that is too speculative to constitute a real live case or controversy. And that's what I understand Toledo-Flores to be arguing, is that if he applied for discretionary relief in the future, that it might -- it might matter, because his sentence might be reduced slightly. I should point out that in the District Court Toledo-Flores conceded that if he didn't get an eight-level sentence enhancement, he would get a four-level sentence enhancement, because this is at least a felony, within the meaning of the adjacent provision of the guidelines. That would result in a guideline range of to months. He would then have gotten months, under Official that guideline range, the very same thing that he got here. And, under the guidelines at the time, a term of supervised release was mandatory. And a -year term of supervised release was mandatory in those circumstances. He would have gotten exactly the same term of supervised release if he had been -- if he had gotten only the four-level enhancement, rather than the eight-level enhancement. I also think that it is somewhat farfetched to think that, given the fact that Toledo-Flores had more than illegal entries into the United States, and various State offenses, that the determination of whether the attorney general would actually grant discretionary relief would turn on a marginal difference in the sentence on that particular offense. CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, Mr. Kneedler. Mr. Long, you have minutes remaining. REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF ROBERT A. LONG, JR. ON BEHALF OF PETITIONER LOPEZ MR. LONG: Thank you, Mr. Chief Justice. In answer to Justice Breyer's question, Mr. Kneedler said that a Federal misdemeanor is a drug-trafficking crime under Section (c) if a State punishes it as a felony. He said, "Well, the Federal Government never prosecutes Federal misdemeanors under Section Official (c)." He said, "The reason is because of (c)()(A)," and the language there is, it has to be an offense for which the person may be prosecuted in a court of the United States. But that language -- a person may be prosecuted in a court of the United States for a misdemeanor. So, the Government is making an argument that, to my knowledge, has never been accepted by any court, has not ever been advanced by the Government in a criminal context, and that would significantly expand Section (c) and numerous other criminal statutes that we cite in our brief that used the same definition of "drug-trafficking crime." The -- Mr. Kneedler also said that the aggravated felony provisions in Section (a)() refer to State law, but I read them just the opposite. There are two kinds. There are of them. Many of them say, "an offense described in U.S. Code Section X." I mean, that's really what -- we're dealing with one of those here. So, it clearly goes to Federal law to define the offense. Now, if State law or foreign law also punishes that offense, then it's an aggravated felony, but, clearly, Federal law is defining the offense. There are other categories, such as murder and theft, that are defined, in general terms; but the Government's position, as I understand it, is, again, you Official use a generic uniform definition. You don't pick any definition that the States may have. The Court just granted --CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, I thought -- I thought you conceded that a State offense could constitute illicit trafficking --MR. LONG: Well, yes --CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: -- in a Controlled Substance --MR. LONG: Yes, Mr. Chief Justice. But, again, to be clear -- and I think this is consistent with the Government's position in other cases -- ultimately, there will be some uniform Federal definition of what constitutes illicit trafficking. It would be -- some commercial element would probably be the definition the Court hasn't decided. States can define it more broadly. But the actual definition -- just as the definition of "burglary" or "theft" --JUSTICE ALITO: You think there's a uniform Federal definition of a theft offense? MR. LONG: Well, it's -- I mean, as -- this --in the Taylor case, in burglary, the Court has a methodology for this. You pick a sort of generic definition. It may not -- it may not come from a Federal statute; it could -- Official JUSTICE ALITO: There's -- they'll -- there's no variation in State offenses that would fall within that, a theft offense? MR. LONG: Well, it's -- again, this is -- the provision we're dealing with is -- looks to Federal law, the Controlled Substances Act and two other statutes. My understanding of the Government's position -- and it's consistent with this Court's cases, in Taylor -- is that, even when it's a generic offense, you would -- you would still have a uniform definition. And that is certainly consistent with the principle of uniformity that applies both in criminal law and in immigration law. I mean, if there's any ambiguity, at the end of the day, ambiguities are supposed to be resolved in favor of uniformity, uniform Federal law -- uniform Federal criminal law, and uniform immigration law. Effectively, what the Government is arguing that -- is that States can banish noncitizens, and can do so by enacting drug laws, deciding to make a simple possession offense a felony. That's a decision that a State would make, almost certainly, for reasons that have little or nothing to do with immigration, and it's highly unlikely that Congress would have left that determination to States. On uniformity, aggravated felonies is a condition for citizenship. If you're convicted of an Official aggravated felony, you may not become a U.S. citizen. You are foreclosed from establishing good moral character. So, in fact, citizenship is at stake here, and the Uniformity Clause is in play. If there are no further questions, thank you. CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, Mr. Long. The case is submitted. [Whereupon, at : a.m., the case in the above-entitled matter was submitted.] Official Page A abetting : : ability : above-entitled : : absence : absentia : abstaining : abstract : accept : accepted : account : accuses :, act :,, :, :, :,, : : : :, : :,, :, : : :, : :, : :, :, : : : :, : : : : :, : : : action : : : : actions : activities : acts : actual : add : : added : adding : addition : additional : :, address : addressed : adjacent : adopted : advanced : : affixed : aggravated : : : : :, : : : :, :,,, :, : :,,, :,,, :, : : : : :, : : : : :, : : aggravated-fe... : agree : : : : : :, agreed : agrees : ahead : aiding : : ALBERTO : alcohol : alien : aliens : alien's : Alito :,,, :, :, : : : ambiguities : : ambiguous :, : : : amend : amendment amendments : : American : amount :, analogous : : :, analysis : : answer : : : : : : : :, : : answered : answering : ANTONIO : appeal :, : : : Appeals : : : APPEARAN... appendix :, : : : : : : applies : : :, : :, : : apply : : : : : applying : approach : April : : area : : arguing : : argument : :,,, : ambiguity : : : :, : : : : :, : : : : : : asking : aspect : assertion : assessment : Assistant : assisting : associate : Association : assume : assuming : : attorney : :, : authority : : authorize : authorized : : automatically : : B b : : back : : : :, : : :, : : : balance : banish : bankruptcy : :, : Bar : barred : Barrett : :,, : : based : : : begins :, behalf :, : :,,, : : : : believe : : best : beyond : : : : BIA : bit : blue : boil : book : bought : break : Breyer :, : :, :,,, :,,, :,, : :, :,,, :, : : :,, :,,, : : :,, : :,,, :,,, :,, Breyer's : brief : : :, : : : : briefs : bring : bringing : : broad : broaden : applied :, a.m : : broadly : brought : : bump-up : burglary : :, but's : C c : : : :, call : called : calls :,, Campo :, : : certainly : : : :, change : :,,, changes : character : charged : charges : Chief :, : :, : :,, :, : :,,, :, : : :, : :, : :, :,, : client : : : : clue : cocaine : Code : : : : : codify : : codifying : collateral : : : come :, : : : comes :, : : : : children : committed : coming : commercial chose : Circuit :, cancellation : : capable : careful : carry : case : : :,, :, : :, : :, : :, : cite : : :, : :, :, : citizen : : component : : : : : :, cited : : citing : : : : : : : : : : : circumstances comparison committing completely : : : condition : : concurrent :, : conditional : conditions : : : conduct :, :, : :,,, : : : :, : :, confirmation : confused : Congress : :, : : : : : : : : : : :, : : :, :, : : connection : consecutive :, :, considered : consistent : :, consistently constitute : : : : : : constitutes : : Constitution :,constitutional : : construction : : contention : context : : : continuing: : contrast : control : controlled : :,,,:,,,: :,: :, : :,,:,,,:,, : : :,: :,:,, :, : : :,:, : : : : Official Page broader :, certain : : : : :, : : clearly : : : : : :, concrete : : : : citizenship :,, : classification : : :, : conceded : : concede : : consequence : :, : : : : consequences : : : : :, : controversy:, : : :, : : clear : : concluded : consider : considerable : : conceivable :,, : :, :, : :, Clause :, conclusion : classifications : : concession : : : :,, : :,: : convicted : cases :, :, : : : : : : : : : : : categories : category :, : : :, : : conviction : : : : : :,,,, :,,, :, : :, : :,,,, : : : : : :, : : convictions : convinced : cooperate : correct : : : : : correctly : corresponding : Counsel : count : : : countries : country : : :, : : counts : : course : : : : court :, : :, : :, :, : :,, :,,, : :, : :, :, : : :, : :, : : : : :, : : : : :,, :,, courts : : : Court's : :, : : covered : : create : creates : crime :, : : : :,,, : : : :, : : :, : : :, :,,, :,, :, : : :, :, : : :, : :, :, : :, : : crimes : : : : : criminal : :, : :, : : :, :, : : Crooks : : :,, :,, :,,, : :, Official Page : :, : :, :,, :,,, : :, :,, :,, : CSA : cut : D D : Dakota : : :, date-rape : : day : dealing : : : deals : : debating : decade : decide : : : : : decided : : : : deciding : decision : : : : : decisions : deemed : defeats : defendant : : : defendant's : Defender : define : : : defined : : : : : : defines : defining : definition : :, : : :, : : : : :, : :,, : : :,, : :, : :, :,,, :, : definitional : delete : deleted : Department : depend : dependent : depends : deportation : : : deported : : : : : :, Deputy : described : :,,,, :, : :, : desirable : determination : : : determine : : : : determines determining : : developed : develops : difference : different : : :, : : :, : : direct : direction : directly : : : discretion : discretionary :, : discuss : dispensations distinguishes : : distribute : :, distribution : District :, : :,, : : : : disuniformity : doctrine : doing : : double : draw : driving : drug : : : : : :, : : : : : : : drugs :, : :, : : drug-trafficki... :, : Official Page :, : : : :, : :, : : : :, entering : entirety : : : entries : : : equates : : : enhancing : D.C :, : ESQ :, : E e : :, : :,, : earlier : EDWIN : : : effect : : : : : effectively : : : eight : eight-level : either : : :, :, : element : : : eligibility : em : empirical : : enacted : enacting : enactment : enforced : engage : engaged : : engages : enhanced : : :, : enhancement : : : : : : :,,, established : establishing : et : evaluated : evaluating : everybody : evident : exactly : : example : :, : : : :, : : excess : excessively : exemption : exercise : : : exercises : expand : : expired : : : explained : explicit : : express : : : expressed : expressly : : extend : extent : extinguished extradited : extraordinary : : : Ff : : : face : : fact : : : :: :: :factor :factors :facts :fall : : far : : farfetched :favor :favorable :features :,Federal ::,, : :, : :,, : : :,:, : : :,: :,: :: :,: :,:, : :,,:,,:,,,:, : : :,:,,,:,,,: :, :, : :,,, :, : :,,, : : : : :,, :,, :, : :, : :, felon : felonies : : : :, : :, : :, : : felony :, :, : :, : : :, : : field :, filed : find : finding : first : : : : : : : : : : : : : : focusing : found : : follow : : : followed : following : follows : footnote : foreclosed : foreign :,: : : : :,,, : : :, focus : :,, :,,,, :, : : :, : : :,,, : :, :,, : :, :,,, : : :,,, : :, :,, :,, :,,, :, : :,,, :,,, :, : :, : :,, :,,, : :, :, : :, : : :,:, : :,,:,,:,,:,, future : : : : : g : : :, :, : : :gang :gears :general : : four : : fours : four-level : friends : further : :, : : G Official Page : : : : : generally : general's : generic :, : : getting : GINSBURG : : : : : : : : :, : : :, graduated : Houston : grams : grant : granted : hypothesis : I: gravity :, : :, : ground : : :, guess : : :, guideline : :, : :, : :, : : :,, guilty : guidelines : : : give : : : given : : go : : : goes : : : going : : :, : : : : : : : : Gonzales : : : :, : :, : good : : : gotten : :, government : : :, : :, : :,, : : : :, : Government's gun :, : guy : H Hamdi :, : :, happen : : : happened : : happens :, : : happenstance : harm : hear : : heard :, : hearing : heavily : held : : : helps : Heronka : highly : history : :, hold : homestead : Honor :, identical :identifying ::illegal :: :illicit :,:,,:,,:, : :,immigration: :: ::, : : :: :,:,,:, : :, impact : : implication : : : importance : important : : :, : importantly : imposed :, :,, : : : :, impossible : : imprisonment : : INA : : including : interpreted:, : : :, inadmissibility : :, include : : : : : : included : : : includes :, : : inconsistency : incorporate : incorporated :, : : incorporates incorporation indication : : : :,indications : ineligibility: ineligible : information : infused : ingenious : initial : initially : injury : inserted : insist : insisted : instance : :, : : instances : intended : :,: intent : : : intention : interested : interesting interpret : : : interpretation: : : : : : : intoxicated : involved : : : involving : irrespective: : issue : i.e : Jj : : Jerome ::,,:,,,:JOSE :JR : :, : :judgment :jurisdiction: :,: :: ::, : :jury :Justice : :, :, :,,, :,,,: :,,:,,, Official Page :, :, :, : :,,, : :, :,,, : :,, :,,, : :, :,, :,,,, :, : :, : :,,, :,, :, : :, : :,,, :, : :,,, :,,, : :, :, : :,, :,, :,, :,,, :, : :,, : : : : :,, :,,, : :,, : : :,,,, :,,, :, : :,,, : :,, : :,, :, : :,,, :, : :,,, :, : :,,, :,, :,,,, : :,, : :,, :,,, :, : :,,, :,,, :, : : :,, :,, :,,, : : Justices : K k : :,, keep : Kemna : : : Kennedy :, :,, : : :,, :,, key : : :, kind : kinds : Kneedler : : :, : :, : :, :,,, :,,, : :, :, : :,,, :,, :,, : :, :,,,, :,,,, :, : :,,, :,,, :,,, :,, :,, :,,,, :, : :,,, :,,, :,,, : :, :, : :,,, :,, :,,,, : :, :, : :, :, : :, : know : :, : : : :, : : : : knowledge : : L labels : Lane : : language : : : : : :, : : :, :, : : laundering : :, law :, : : :,, : : : :,, : :, :,,, : : : :, : :, : :, :, : :, : :, : : : :, : :, : :,,, : :, :,,, :,,, :, : :,, :,,, : : :, : :,,, : :, :,,, laws : : : : lead : leads : learn : learns : : leaves :, left : legal : legislative : : :, length :, : leniently : Leocal : let's : : level : : light : likewise : limit : limits : linguistically : listed : Listen :, little : : live : Long : : : :,, : :,,, :, :, :, :, :, :, :,,, : :, :,,, : :,, :,, :, :, :,, :, : : :, : :, : : : : : : : :, : :, : : : :,,, :, : :,,, : : : look : : looked : : : : looking : : looks : : : : Lopez :, : : :, : Lopez's : : lose : : :, lot : : M making : : : : Official Page mandatory : mileage : : :,, : :, manufacture :, mind : : : : marginal : minimal : matter : minimum : : : : : : : minor : maximum : minutes : mean : : misdemeanor necessarily : offenses :, parties : : pattern : patterned : needs : never : :,, need :,, : : :, :,,, :,, : pause : penalties : : : : :, penalty : penultimate : :, :,, : : office : officials : Oh : : nonimmigrant Okay : : : : : : perfect : : : : : : people :,, noncitizens : :, perfectly : : : : number : omitted : once : :, period :, open : operate : operated : operative : : : numerous : opinion : opposite : oral : :,, : : :, : : : :, : : : :, persons : person : : : : : : : : : : : :, : :, : notable : noticed : :,, :, : now-expired :, : : : :,, : :,, :,, : : :, : :, : : : : : meaning : : means : : : : : :, : : : : meant : : meet : meets : members : mention : : : : : mentioned : : : :, : mentioning : mere :, merely : : : merits : methodology : Mexico :, : :, : misdemeanors : : : mistake : modification : modify : moment : money :, : months : :, moot :, : :, : : : mootness : : :, moral : morning : move : murder : N N :, : naturalization : nature : : OO : : obvious :occasionally:occupies :occupy :October :odd :,odds :offense : : : : : order : :, : ordinary : : outcome : outlawed : outside :, PP ::,, :, :, page : : : :: :,, :,,, paper :paragraph:,,, : : : : : :, :, : : : :,,, : :, parole :paroled :particular :: :::parallel : : Petitioner : :,, : :, : : : : petitioners : Petitioner's : phrase : : : : : : physical : physically : pick : : : :,picked : piece : place : : play : pleaded : please : : : plugged : point : : : : : :,, :, : : : : :, : pointed : : : points : :, portion : posit : : position : : : : : : : possess : possessing : possession : : :, :, : :,,, : :, :, : : : : possessory : possibility : :,, :, possible : practice : : Precisely : predicate : prepared :, : :,, presence : present : presenting : pressed : presuming : pretty : : prevail : primarily : principle : :,, : : principles : prior : : prison :, : : : probably : : probation : :, : : problem : : : proceedings : progeny : promotes : pronounce : proper : properly : prosecuted : : :, prosecutes : prosecuting : prosecution : : : : prosecutions : provision : : :,, :, : : : : : : : : provisions : :, : : : : : Public : Official Page punish : punishable : :,,, :,,, : :, : :, :, : :, :, : : :, : :, : : :, :,,, :,, : : punished : punishes : : : punishment : : : purchasing : purpose : purposes : : : :, : : : :,,, : put : Q qualified : qualify : quantity : : question : :, : : : : : : : : : : questions : : : quite : : R r : : : range : : ratify : read : : : : reading :, : :, readmitted : : real : : realistic : :, : realize : really :, : : : : reason : : : reasonable :, reasons : : : REBUTTAL : : recall : recidivist : recognize : record : reduce : reduced : reducing : reduction : reentries : reentry : refer : : : reference : : :, : referred : referring : : refers : : : :, reimprisoned : reinforce : relating : release :, :, : :,, : :,, : : : : :,, released : relevant : relief : : rely : remain : remaining : removal : : : render : renders : : reply : repudiation : require :, requirement : :, : : : : requirements : requires : resentenced resentencing : : : reserve : resolved : respect : : :, : : : :, : : : respects : Official Page Respondents : : : response : result : : retains :, saved : saying : : : : : : : : says : : : : : :, sensibly : sentence : : : : : : simply : retrospective retrospectively : : : revised : revoke : revoked :, : REYMUNDO : right : : :, : : :, : : : : :, :, : :,,, :,, rise : risk : ROBERT : :, : : ROBERTS : :, : :, : :,,, :, : : :, :, : :, : role : room : rules : run : S s : :, : : : sanctions : :, : : : :, :, : : : : : : single : situation : : : :,,, :,,, :, : :, : situations : : :, :,, : : : :, : : : :, : :, : : slightly : Soliciting : Solicitor : somewhat : sorry : sort : : : : Scalia :,,, :, : : : :,, :,, :, :, :,,, sentenced : SOUTER : :,, : :,,, :,, : :, : :,,, : :,, :,,, sentencing :,, :,,, : : : :, :,,, separate : :,,,, seq : : : series : :, : serious : Southern :, specific : : : : South : : sentences : specifically :, : scheme : second :, : : : section : :,, : :, : : :, :, : : : : : : :, :,, sections :, : see : : : : : send : sense : : : seriously : Serrano : :, set : : severity : shed : show : shows : significance : significant : :, significantly : similar : : : : simple : : : specification : : specified : : speculative : speech : : Spencer : : : stake : standard : : standards : standing : : : State :,, :,, :, :,,, : :, : : :, : :, :,,, :, : :, : : :, :,, :,,,, :, : : :, :,, : : :, : :, :, : :,,, : :, :,,, : :, : : : :, : :, : :, : :, : :, :, : :, statement : States :,, : :,, : : : :, : : : : :,, : : : :, :, :, State-law : status : : statute :, : :,: :, : :,: : :, : Official Page : :, : :, : :, :, : :, : :, : : statutes : :,, : : : : : : statute's : statutory : : Stevens : :, : :, : :,,,, :,,, :, : :,, straightforward : strange : : strong : : strongly : structure : : stylistic : subject :, :, : :,, : : : :, subjected : submitted : : : subparagraph subparagraphs :,, subsection : : : subsections : : substance : : :, : Substances : :,,, :,,, : : : : :, :,,, :, : : :, : :, :,, :, : : :, : : : substantial : substantive : suggest : suggesting : suggests : superfluous : supervised : :,, :,,, : :, : :, : :,, supervised-rel... : :, supervision : : : Supervisory : suppose : supposed : : : supposing : Supreme :, sure : : : suspicious : : switch : T t :, : : : take : : taken : : talk : talked : talking : : : :,, : : Taylor :, : : : tell :,, telling : : tension :, : : tequila : term : :, : : : : : : : : : : : :,, terms : : : :, : : test : testified : testify : Texas : : textual : : thank : :, : : :, theft :,, : :, : then-expired : theory : they'd : thing : : : : : : : things : think : :, : :, : : :, : :, : : : : : :,, : : :,,, : :, : : :,, : :, :, thinks : thoroughly : thought : : : : : : : :, thousand : three : : :, : : : time : : : : : : : times : TIMOTHY : : : told : Toledo-Flores :, : : :, : : : : : :,,, : Toledo-Flores's : tolled : touchstone : trafficking : :,,, : :,,, :,,, :,,, : :,, : :, : : : : : : :, treat : treated : treats :, true : : : : : : : trump : try : : : trying : :, Tuesday : tug : turn : : :, : : : :, : : turns : : : two : :, : : : :, : :, : : : : types : U Uh-huh : ultimately : : unanimous : underlying :,understand : : : : : : : understanding :, variation : : various : version : versus :, : : : view :, : : : violate : : :, : :, : : unfair : uniform : : :, : :, : :, violates : : : :, uniformity : violation : violated : : Official :, : : :, : : : : : : : : weight : went : : we'll : : we're : : :,, : : : : : we've : : : whichever : :, :,, :, : :,,: uniform-law : United :,, : : :, Williams : : :, :, : win : : : witness : violations : word : : : :, : : : : : :,, violence :, words :, : : :, : : : : :, : : :, visa : :, visit : vs : W works : world : write : work : : : :, waiver : : : : unseemly : use : : U.S : : : : : : : : :, : : U.S.C :, : V : want : : : :, : : : wanted : : : : : wants : : warrant : v :, : Washington :, : way : :, : :, : :, : wrong :,Xx :, : YYeah : year :, : ::years :, :, : Yup : Page : : st : :, : : : A : : (c)()(H) : : : : : :, : :,A : :A : A : : : : : : : : : ::,(c) :,:, : : :,,:,,: :, :, : :, : :, : :, : : :,: : Z zero : - : - : : : : -year : : : : (a)() :: :: : : : :(a) :(a)() :(a)() ::, : :, :: ::, : :, : : :(a)()(B): : :(a) : :: :: : : : : : : :: :, ::, : : : : :, th :, : : :, (c)() : : : :, : (c)()(A) : : (c)() : : : : : : (e) : : Official Page 