 IN THE SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - xDWAYNE GILES, : Petitioner : v. : No. -CALIFORNIA. :- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - x Washington, D.C. Tuesday, April , The above-entitled matter came on for oralargument before the Supreme Court of the United Statesat : a.m.APPEARANCES:MARILYN G. BURKHARDT, ESQ., Los Angeles, Cal.; on behalf of the Petitioner.DONALD E. DE NICOLA, ESQ., Deputy State Solicitor, Los Angeles, Cal.; on behalf of the Respondent. C O N T E N T SORAL ARGUMENT OF PAGEMARILYN G. BURKHARDT, ESQ. On behalf of the Petitioner DONALD E. DE NICOLA, ESQ. On behalf of the Respondent REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OFMARILYN G. BURKHARDT, ESQ. On behalf of the Petitioner P R O C E E D I N G S (: a.m.) CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: We'll hear argumentnext in Case -, Giles versus California. Ms. Burkhardt. ORAL ARGUMENT OF MARILYN G. BURKHARDT ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONER MS. BURKHARDT: Thank you, Mr. ChiefJustice, and may it please the Court: In Crawford this Court made clear that inorder to determine the scope of the Confrontation Clausewe look to the common law and particularly as it existedat the time of the framing. And, as we have shown inour briefs, the -- California's forfeiture rule did notexist in common law. It did not exist at the time ofthe framing. And the common-law concept that isembodied in the Confrontation Clause has grave,practical importance to defendants, and particularly tothe defendant in this case, because the application ofthis new forfeiture rule that California createddeprived the Petitioner of his right to present a fairclaim of self-defense. Basically, the statement that was admittedaccused the Petitioner of having viciously attackedMiss Avie and having threatened her at knifepoint and having threatened to kill her. And the admission ofthis statement, which he never had a chance tocross-examine or attempt a cross-examination, obviouslywas highly prejudicial because it indicated to the jurythat he was planning to kill her. JUSTICE GINSBURG: But he got -- he got onthe stand, and he said some very nasty things about her.I mean he painted her as aggressive, vengeful. Isn'tthere a legitimate rebuttal when he is painting her asthe aggressor, and she has given a statement thatsuggests that he is the one who was aggressive? MS. BURKHARDT: Well, Justice Ginsburg, the-- her statement came in, in the prosecution'scase-in-chief. JUSTICE GINSBURG: But could it have come inas rebuttal of his testimony, the same testimony by thepolice? Was it the police officer that -- MS. BURKHARDT: Yes. JUSTICE GINSBURG: -- took her statement?Okay. He gets on the stand, and he says all of theseunpleasant things about her. And then the State says,okay, now we have our chance, and we are going to put inher statement through the testimony of the policeofficer to rebut what he has just said. MS. BURKHARDT: Well, the difference is that his statements about her went solely to his state ofmind. They did not come in for their truth, but herstatements came in for their truth. So it really isn'tan apples-and-oranges comparison. JUSTICE SCALIA: I would think that thedifference is that his statements about her were subjectto cross-examination. MS. BURKHARDT: Indeed, of course. JUSTICE SCALIA: And her statements abouthim were not. MS. BURKHARDT: Exactly. JUSTICE KENNEDY: But we are not -- well,but we are talking about the door -- the door openinghere at trial. Did he give notice that he was going totestify in California? Do they have some rule that ifyou're going to testify, you have to give notice? MS. BURKHARDT: He did indicate that he wasgoing to present a claim of self-defense, and I believehe indicated that he was going to testify. JUSTICE KENNEDY: That tends to diminishsomewhat, but not entirely, your, I think, quite properresponse that this came in on direct not -- not cross. MS. BURKHARDT: Well, Justice Kennedy, thefact that it was a self-defense claim is irrelevant.This testimony would have come in -- her testimony or hearsay statements would have come in even if he hadn'tpresented a self-defense claim. It just was acoincidence in this case. And California claims that they have a rightto introduce such testimonial statements in any case inwhich they can show that the defendant was the cause ofthe witness's absence. I mean the case -- JUSTICE GINSBURG: Maybe they would be wrong-- maybe they would be wrong in another case, but wehave this case, and Justice Scalia has suggested, I takeit, that this testimony could not come in even by way ofrebuttal. MS. BURKHARDT: Right. JUSTICE GINSBURG: Even by way ofcross-examination. Do you -- do you share that view? MS. BURKHARDT: I do. It -- it doesn'treally go to any of the claims -- JUSTICE GINSBURG: It may go to hiscredibility. He has just painted a picture of thiswoman which is quite different from what her statementto the police officer would portray. MS. BURKHARDT: Well, the injustice here,Justice Ginsburg, is that he doesn't have a -- anymeaningful opportunity to contest what the policeofficer says she said because he never had an opportunity to cross-examine her. JUSTICE KENNEDY: Well, of course -- ofcourse, that's true. That is the reason for theconfrontation -- confrontation rule. But it does seemto me that this is responsive to his defense; and yousay, well, it's his state of mind, and her testimony wasgeneral. I think it does go to his state of mind. JUSTICE SCALIA: I'm not following you. Isthere -- is there an exception to the hearsay rule solong as the hearsay is brought in, in rebuttal? Isthere a rebuttal exception to the hearsay rule? MS. BURKHARDT: Not to my knowledge. JUSTICE KENNEDY: But we are talking hereabout the definition or the contours of the equitablerule, the forfeiture rule, for confrontation. And Ithink perhaps what Justice Ginsburg was suggesting, andcertainly what I was suggesting, is that when we arelooking at whether or not there is a forfeiture, we aretalking about equitable considerations. Now, it's true in this case we are presentedwith an instance that I've never seen, which is that themurder itself makes the declarant unavailable forpurposes of the equitable exception. And it is truethat that goes much further than the common law did. MS. BURKHARDT: It goes much further; and, indeed, the State has not cited one single case atcommon law or after that supports its view that thisrule is proper. JUSTICE BREYER: How much are we supposed tofollow the common law, in your opinion, as it was in theth century or th century, or something? I meansuppose, to take a fanciful example -- I mean -- butsuppose there was a common-law rule. And I know therewasn't, but suppose there was a common-law rule thatsaid in cases involving witches you cannot admit anyevidence because either the witch, the accused witch,came up out of the water when they were dunking her,and, therefore, she is guilty, so there is no need; orshe is under water, which shows she is, you know,guilty, but you can't cross-examine a person underwater. Now if there were a rule like that, would wenow incorporate it into the Constitution of the UnitedStates? The answer is meant to be no. (Laughter.) MS. BURKHARDT: Yes. JUSTICE BREYER: Now, let's get morerealistic. There are all kinds of rules -- JUSTICE SCALIA: He is thinking aboutCambridge and not England. (Laughter.) JUSTICE BREYER: Okay. So there are allkinds of rules of disqualification of witnesses in theth and th century. You couldn't testify. In thiscase there would have been no admission if she had beenmarried to the man instead of being his girlfriend. Youcouldn't have a spouse; you couldn't have an interestedparty; you couldn't have a child who didn't understandthe oath; you couldn't have a person who was an atheist;you couldn't have somebody who was a convicted felon. So now are we supposed to incorporate all ofthese things into the Confrontation Clause? JUSTICE SCALIA: Do any of them haveanything to do with the Confrontation Clause? MS. BURKHARDT: No. JUSTICE BREYER: It doesn't have to do withthe Confrontation Clause that you couldn't cross-examineperson who didn't understand the meaning of the oath? MS. BURKHARDT: Justice Breyer, theConfrontation Clause sets forth a basic policy, which isthat we are to have live testimony in court. We have tohave witnesses available in court. JUSTICE BREYER: So what about a person who-- the same facts that he could not -- wasn't eligibleto testify? At common law you never could have gotten that person to testify in court, no matter what. And,therefore, what? That's what I'm asking, if we aresupposed to follow all of the contours of that rule. MS. BURKHARDT: Well, in Crawford this Courtsaid we do look to -- JUSTICE BREYER: All right. But, now, doesthat make sense? For example, if this woman had beenmarried, she could not. She -- her testimony -- whetheryour client deliberately procured her absence,accidentally procured her absence, whatever he did, thattestimony could not have come in, is that right, if shewas married to him? MS. BURKHARDT: Well, that's sort of -- thatsounds like, say, the situation in Crawford that -- JUSTICE KENNEDY: Well, but I think whatJustice Breyer is saying -- JUSTICE BREYER: I'm trying to drive at whatthe contours are. Which ones do we ignore, and whichdon't -- MS. BURKHARDT: -- sets forth the propercontours, which is that any exception to theConfrontation Clause must be very, very narrow. Andthey approved an exception for witness tampering whichis deeply embedded in the common law. JUSTICE KENNEDY: But I think what Justice Breyer's line of questioning points out is that therewere other provisions of the evidence rule followed inEngland which would not allow the testimony to come in,in the first place. In this case, we wouldn't even havethe issue before us if the testimony were not admissibleas an exception to the hearsay rule. It is admissible. Then we have to ask if it conforms with theConfrontation Clause, which is the issue we have. Butbecause of the restrictions he points to, there wasnever the occasion for the common law to explore theboundaries of the forfeiture exception in theconfrontation context. MS. BURKHARDT: Well, Your Honor -- JUSTICE SCALIA: And besides which, thequestion that Justice Breyer was asking was alreadyanswered in Crawford; wasn't it? MS. BURKHARDT: Yes, it was. JUSTICE SCALIA: A case from which hedissented. But we did say that the meaning of theConfrontation Clause is the meaning it bore when thepeople adopted it. MS. BURKHARDT: That is right. JUSTICE BREYER: I don't think I did -- CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: There was a dyingdeclaration rule at the common law; wasn't there? MS. BURKHARDT: Yes, there was. CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, that didn'trequire any inquiry into the intent of the personresponsible for the death, or the imminent death, right? MS. BURKHARDT: That's correct. But thedying declaration -- the fact that the dying declarationrule existed with its very specific elements showspowerfully that no general rule existed such as theCalifornia rule, because if the California rule hadexisted -- CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, if the dyingdeclaration rule didn't require intent, why shouldyours? MS. BURKHARDT: Because the forfeiture ruleat -- which is a separate -- entirely a separate rule ofcommon law, did require intent to prevent testimony. Ithas always been viewed that way from its inception inLord Morley's Case -- JUSTICE SCALIA: Instead of intent, thedying declaration rule required knowledge by thedeclarant that the declarant was about to die. MS. BURKHARDT: Correct. JUSTICE SCALIA: Right? MS. BURKHARDT: That's right. JUSTICE SCALIA: And the evidence of truthfulness was apparently that the person was about toenter the next world. MS. BURKHARDT: That's right. JUSTICE SCALIA: And most of us don't lie atthat particular moment. Whereas, in the ConfrontationClause situation you have a totally different situation. MS. BURKHARDT: Correct. JUSTICE BREYER: I joined Crawford, andJustice Scalia would like to kick me off the boat, whichI'm rapidly leaving in any event, but the -- (Laughter.) JUSTICE SCALIA: You jumped off in Crawford,I thought. JUSTICE BREYER: Right. But my question --I want to go back because what I'm finding difficultis -- well, let's take the specific case. Suppose theyhad been married. If they had been married in , Iguess, or , or , or whenever, her testimonywould not have come in regardless. I think I'm right onthat. MS. BURKHARDT: Yes, as a spouse. JUSTICE BREYER: Yes, as a spouse. And,therefore, whether he procured her absence or not isbeside the point. Now, do we follow that rule under theConfrontation Clause today? JUSTICE GINSBURG: I think your answer wasthat in Crawford that was the situation. It was aspouse; wasn't it? MS. BURKHARDT: I'm sorry? JUSTICE GINSBURG: In Crawford. MS. BURKHARDT: In Crawford it was a spouse. JUSTICE GINSBURG: And it was the defendantwho said he didn't want her to testify. MS. BURKHARDT: That's right. CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Under the -- thetestimony of someone who heard her say something, wasthat admissible? MS. BURKHARDT: Under -- under Crawford? CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: No. No. Under thecommon law. MS. BURKHARDT: I don't think it was.Hearsay was absolutely inadmissible. And there werejust very, very narrow exceptions under the common law. CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Like in the case ofan unavailable witness? MS. BURKHARDT: Of course. Especially inthe case of an unavailable witness. In Lord Morley'scase they set forth rules. JUSTICE GINSBURG: There are some thingsthat are not just testimonial. For example, suppose she left a sealed letter. She has been murdered, and theletter is to be opened only upon her death, and theletter says: If I was done in, go after him. Couldthat come into evidence? MS. BURKHARDT: Well, Justice Ginsburg, itdepends on whether it was deemed to be testimonial ornot. JUSTICE GINSBURG: Well, is it? I'm justgiving you -- MS. BURKHARDT: It's not an issue in ourcase. I mean perhaps. I mean obviously, as you pointout, if she had made a statement to a -- not a policeofficer -- to a friend, family member, or whatever, anontestimonial statement, then that probably could comein. But what is at issue here -- JUSTICE GINSBURG: So what's the linebetween what -- I understand that she is accusing him toa police officer. MS. BURKHARDT: Yes. JUSTICE GINSBURG: So you say that'stestimonial. MS. BURKHARDT: The courts -- JUSTICE GINSBURG: If she is talking to afriend and saying that she is scared to death of thisman -- MS. BURKHARDT: That is -- JUSTICE GINSBURG: -- the friend couldtestify? MS. BURKHARDT: That's perhapsnontestimonial. JUSTICE GINSBURG: Why? MS. BURKHARDT: Well -- JUSTICE GINSBURG: What's the difference?If this rule is going to separate the testimonial fromthe nontestimonial, you have to be able to tell whenit's one and when it's the other. MS. BURKHARDT: Well, the Court hasn't fullydescribed all of the parameters of "testimonial." Butour case does not involve that issue, because thisstatement is clearly testimonial. JUSTICE ALITO: Could I ask you whetherthere is really anything involved in this case? Boththe California Supreme Court and the Court of Appealssaid it is inconceivable that any rational trier of factwould have concluded that the shooting was excusable orjustifiable. Doesn't that virtually guarantee that ifthere was an error here, it was harmless error? MS. BURKHARDT: Well, no, not necessarily.I think it's very significant that the court of appeals -- neither the California Supreme Court nor theCourt of Appeals engaged in a harmless-error analysis.And that statement that you quote presupposed that thetestimonial hearsay statement at issue was a largefactor in coming to that conclusion. So, you know, no,I don't think it's necessary. That really went -- JUSTICE ALITO: No. No. Is that correct?Weren't they concluding that, based on the independentevidence, it was virtually inconceivable -- MS. BURKHARDT: No. JUSTICE ALITO: No? MS. BURKHARDT: No. CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: How do we know inthis case that part of his intent was not to prevent herfrom testifying at trial? I mean, it's obvious that hewas upset about something else, but maybe in his mind heis saying, oh, boy, if she has talked to people abouthow I'm going to kill her, I'd better do it so that shecan't testify. MS. BURKHARDT: There was a specific findingof fact by the court of appeals that he did not intendto kill her -- he did not kill her to prevent testimony. CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: How are we evergoing to know that in a typical case? MS. BURKHARDT: Well, by, you know, analyzing the evidence. I mean, obviously, there aremany ways, and perhaps he made a statement. CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, take a caselike this, I don't understand how that finding couldhave been made. He knew that she had reported -- thatshe had said to her friends he is going to kill me; heis going to kill me. And then he figures he'd better doit or it's going to -- his self-defense claim is goingto look a lot weaker. MS. BURKHARDT: Well, that -- I think, Mr.Chief Justice, that doesn't make an awful lot of sensebecause that indicates that he killed her in order toprevent her from -- CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: No, I'm sorry itdoesn't. It means that that may have been part of hismotive, to kill her. Because I'm not just going to beather up this time; I'm actually going to kill her becauseotherwise I'm going up the river. Here he gets a greatbenefit from murdering her which is that her testimonyis not available. We usually under our system don't tryto give benefits to murderers. MS. BURKHARDT: Well, first of all, thecourt of appeals specifically found that he did not killher to prevent testimony. The California Supreme Courtbasically adopted that finding -- CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: I understand that,and you've said -- MS. BURKHARDT: -- and the State neverchallenged it. CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Excuse me, Counsel.You've said that already. And what I'm saying is that Idon't understand under the legal standard we mightadopt, how that sort of finding makes sense. I mean,you don't ask him why did you kill her; was it toprevent her testimony or not? That's not available inthe inquiry. So how can that sort of factual finding bemade? MS. BURKHARDT: Well, the courts havebeen -- Federal and State courts have been making thatfactual finding for -- for decades under the Federalrule, and under the Carlson line of cases. JUSTICE GINSBURG: But the -- here it's hisown murder trial. So he didn't murder her so that shecouldn't be a witness at the trial for her murder. MS. BURKHARDT: Correct. JUSTICE GINSBURG: But he might havemurdered her because she had good grounds to get himindicted on criminal assault charges. Maybe he murderedher so that she would not be available to testify atsuch a trial. MS. BURKHARDT: Well, that's highlyspeculative. There was no proceeding. There was noindication in the record that -- that her assault claimwas ever going to ripen into any kind of criminalproceeding at all. JUSTICE SCALIA: I had thought that thecommon law rule is that you have to have rendered the --intentionally rendered the witness unavailable withregard to the particular trial that's before the court.Not rendering the witness unavailable for some otherlitigation. MS. BURKHARDT: That was -- JUSTICE SCALIA: Do you know of any casewhere it was some other litigation that -- MS. BURKHARDT: No. JUSTICE SCALIA: I didn't think so. MS. BURKHARDT: No. That is the common law. JUSTICE KENNEDY: Let's -- let's assume thatthe only case on the books pre- was Morley, in whichthe defendant did specifically intend to keep thewitness away from the trial. But let's assume, contraryto fact, that the Morley case gave a -- a very sweeping,expansive definition of the equitable forfeiture ruleand said the defendant cannot profit by his own wrong. Could we take that general language pre- and say that it supports the rule today, assuming wecould find that in the Morley case or other aspects ofthe common law? Or would we be just confined, as youunderstand Crawford, to the specific holding of Mortonthat there has to be a specific intent? MS. BURKHARDT: Well, the hypotheticalassumes something which is -- which Your Honor admits is-- is simply not the case. I'm going to supposeassuming -- JUSTICE KENNEDY: Please -- please make thesupposition. MS. BURKHARDT: -- that it was there, Isuppose the Court could -- could rule on the basis ofthat, but that it's definitely not the case and hasnever been the case. JUSTICE KENNEDY: All right. Well, supposewe read the English authorities that it does notforeclose the expansion of the equitable forfeiturerule. MS. BURKHARDT: Well, I -- I think theEnglish authorities do foreclose it, because the dyingdeclaration cases, and there are dozens of them, wouldnot have come out as they did if this expansiveforfeiture rule had existed. It would make no sense. JUSTICE KENNEDY: I -- I find that difficult to understand because the dying declaration rule came upin many instances when the confrontation rule was notinvolved at all. MS. BURKHARDT: That's right. But withthis -- but the point I'm making is this: that underCalifornia's theory, if the defendant is -- causes theabsence of the witness, and all you need to show iscausation, then the witness's testimonial statement willcome in; but under the dying declaration rule merecausation is not sufficient. You have to also showother factors in very -- particularly that the -- thatthe witness was aware of impending death. That requirement is totally superfluousunder the California theory; and yet it -- the fact thatno lawyer or no judge for hundreds of years eversuggested that in those cases -- JUSTICE STEVENS: Your dying declarationcases are not just murders, though. MS. BURKHARDT: They are just murders. JUSTICE STEVENS: Pardon me? MS. BURKHARDT: They are just murders, YourHonor. JUSTICE KENNEDY: Really? I thought theycame in, in civil cases all the time. MS. BURKHARDT: The ones we cite are murders and they are murder cases in criminal cases. JUSTICE KENNEDY: Well, but I -- I agree --I'll check the, -- check -- JUSTICE STEVENS: But the rationale for thedying declaration rule has nothing to do with who causedthe death. MS. BURKHARDT: Well, you know, itspecifically goes to -- the element of the dyingdeclaration is that the statement has to relate to thespecific cause of the death. So it really does. JUSTICE STEVENS: But it has to be imminent,too. MS. BURKHARDT: Well, the death doesn't haveto be imminent specifically. JUSTICE STEVENS: He has to think it'simminent. MS. BURKHARDT: But the perception is -- thedeclarant has to believe -- JUSTICE STEVENS: But that's an entirelydifferent rationale from the issue we have here, becauseit applies across the board to civil cases and all sortsof litigation. MS. BURKHARDT: It applies powerfully inmany, many instances to criminal cases; and that fact --and that has existed for -- for centuries -- shows that there was no general rule that all, you know, needed todo was to be accused of murdering the victim; becauseotherwise if California rule had existed, there would beno need to make this other showing in the dyingdeclaration cases. And in many cases, as we have cited in ourbrief and as the NACDL has cited, evidence -- importantevidence was kept out. Testimonial hearsay accusationswere kept out -- from the victim accusing the defendantwere kept out because they didn't meet the specificrequirements, specifically the sense of impending death. JUSTICE KENNEDY: But the forfeiture rule isdesigned to suspend the operation of the confrontationrule. That doesn't mean that it comes in. You stillneed another hearsay exception which will allow it in. MS. BURKHARDT: Well, not under the commonlaw. It was -- it was one rule under the common law.It was only later that it operated as two separate rulesof confrontation and a hearsay rule. Under the commonlaw all you needed to show was the dying declaration,then it was admissible for all purposes. There was nodistinction between confrontation and hearsay at thattime. And so therefore, again -- it just -- if allyou needed to show was that the defendant caused or likely caused the absence or killed the victim, then allof those cases went the wrong way; all of that evidence,the victim's accusations, would have come in --automatically. And they did not come in; in case aftercase we have showed that. We have cited some dozens ofcases that show that. And the State has not cited evenone single case, not one, which shows at common law thatthis evidence here would have come in. I'd like to reserve the remainder of my timeif there are no more questions. CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you,Ms. Burkhardt. Mr. De Nicola. ORAL ARGUMENT OF DONALD E. DE NICOLA ON BEHALF OF THE RESPONDENT MR. De NICOLA: Mr. Chief Justice, and mayit please the Court: I think I want to start off by correcting, Ithink, the impression that the common law ever stated arule that intent to tamper was a prerequisite forkeeping out the evidence of a -- of a victim of amurderer. And I don't think this Court, in the Reynoldscase, has ever -- or in the subsequent cases, has everstated such a rule. JUSTICE SCALIA: Well, it didn't put it in those very words, but I think a lot of -- of thequotations from opinions cited by your friend seemed tome to say that. But why don't you start off by telling -- byexplaining to us why these many cases excluded the dyingdeclaration of the murdered person when -- if it couldnot be shown that the murdered person knew when thedeclaration was made that he or she was dying? If therule that you're announcing was the rule at common law,all of those would have come in because that declarationsaid this Defendant killed me. And, therefore, it wouldhave been true in all of those cases that this defendantprocured the absence of the witness from the trial. Howdo you explain that. And there are many cases. It's not just afew. The requirement in the dying declaration casesthat the -- that the declarant be aware of impendingdeath is uniform. Why even bother with that requirementif it could all come in under -- under this procurementof the absence-of-the-witness rule? MR. De NICOLA: Well, I think, as JusticeKennedy's question suggested, that there are differentelements to -- that need to be surpassed before thedying declaration would come in. What happens in the dying declaration situation, Your Honor, is that there is no validation orvindication of the defendant's cross-examination rights;and that's what we are interested in here today: Howthe common law would have treated the cross-examinationright of a defendant who killed a witness. The dyingdeclaration rule certainly cabins the admissibility ofdying declarations for reliability reasons, but it didnot detract from the fact that the evidence of the dyingdeclaration came in peculiarly when the defendant killedthe victim of the crime, the witness whose testimony wascoming in. JUSTICE SCALIA: I'm not sure you'veanswered my question. Why wasn't it enough for theprosecution to say: This dying person said that thisdefendant killed her; therefore, this declaration cancome in because this defendant procured the absence ofthis declarant by killing her? MR. De NICOLA: It wouldn't -- JUSTICE SCALIA: Nobody even ever makesthose arguments. They fight it out on whether thedeclarant was aware of impending death or not, but thatwould have been totally irrelevant if it all comes inunder -- under the rule that you're arguing for here. MR. De NICOLA: No, because under the ruleI'm arguing for, and why the prosecutor wouldn't have succeeded in making that argument, the rule I'm arguingfor is simply that in the situation where the defendantkills the witness the common law did not recognize, orthere is no strong case authority that would indicatethat the common law would recognize, a confrontationright with respect to that defendant against hiswitness's statement. Nevertheless, the common law puts some othernonconfrontation restrictions on the admissibility ofthe dying declaration. Those were reliability-basedrestrictions. Reliability-based restrictions can'tdetermine the scope of the confrontation right. Under Crawford, the confrontation right is aseparate process that has to be adhered to and can't besubstituted with another reliability-assessment machineunless there is a rule that would have let thatstatement in that doesn't depend on a reliabilityassessment. JUSTICE SOUTER: I understand thedistinction you're drawing at the present time or atleast since the Bill of Rights was adopted. We have tworegimes. We have the constitutional condition and wehave hearsay rules. MR. De NICOLA: Yes. JUSTICE SOUTER: But with respect to the common law as it stood at the time that the Bill ofRights was adopted, there wasn't such a distinction; wasthere? In other words, to the extent that theconfrontation right is informed by the common- lawantecedent, the common-law antecedents were not drawingthe line that you are drawing; were they? MR. De NICOLA: I think that's right, YourHonor. JUSTICE SOUTER: And if that is the case,then it seems to me you haven't answered JusticeScalia's question. Because Justice Scalia's questionsays: Let's just talk about common-law antecedents fora moment; and, given common-law antecedents, why werepeople worried about the consciousness of death underthe dying declaration rule if there was this broaderrule which is supposed to inform our understanding ofthe confrontation right, which would have let it insimply because the crime had forfeited the right toobject. And it seems to me that you still have notanswered his question. MR. De NICOLA: Well, let me -- let me takea different tack. Under the common-law rule, if thedefendant killed the witness and the witness's statementmet the dying declaration criteria, that statement wouldcome in against the defendant. But if the defendant killed the same victim and you had another witness whowitnessed the crime and made a dying declaration thatqualified under the rule, that dying declarationdescribing the defendant's infliction of the mortalblow, that dying declaration would not have come in. JUSTICE KENNEDY: If it was -- if it wastestimony. There are a lot of declarations that are nottestimonial, and the rule is very important for those. MR. De NICOLA: Yes. JUSTICE KENNEDY: There are alsodeclarations that are testimonial, in which case we lookto the confrontation concept. MR. De NICOLA: Yes, but I think -- but Ithink, with respect to testimonial statements, it -- Ithink it gives you an insight into what the common lawwould have done with respect to the allegedconfrontation rights of the murderer against the victimto know that when the defendant murdered the victim, thevictim's dying declaration came in without regard toconfrontation. It might not have been excluded because itmight not have met other criteria, but it would havecome in without confrontation. And it would have comein without confrontation in a way that the -- the merewitness who makes a dying declaration and witnesses the same crime would not have come in. CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: I would suppose thatthere are a lot, a lot of situations in which a deadvictim has made statements pertinent to the murder. Sowouldn't your rule drive a pretty big hole throughCrawford? This is not an isolated instance where thevictim said something about the murderer. That wouldseem to be a fairly common situation, because mostmurders involve people who know each other. MR. De NICOLA: Well, I think it would -- it-- I think it would, it would apply in murder cases withrespect to the statements of the victim. So I think the-- I think the application of the forfeiture rule on amurder basis as we are suggesting here, yes, I think itwould -- JUSTICE KENNEDY: But to the extent thatCrawford is confined simply to testimonial statements,any number of statements -- MR. De NICOLA: Right. JUSTICE KENNEDY: -- that will come in underthe California evidence rule are simply not controlledby the Confrontation Clause anyway. It's just -- it's astandard hearsay problem. MR. De NICOLA: Yes. Like the California Supreme Court recognized, and it was buttressed, Ithink, by this Court's decision in Davis, simply becausethe defendant might forfeit his confrontation rightsbecause he murders the victim, that doesn't necessarilymean that he forfeits his other hearsay- ruleprotections or his other constitutional-reliabilityprotections or his right to impeach the hearsaydeclarations of the unavailable witness or his right tocontradict them or his right -- JUSTICE GINSBURG: Does that mean, what youjust said, that this is not a problem in States thathave adopted the Federal Rules of Evidence? Because, asI understand it, there is an exception, the standardexception, for when the defendant procures the witness'sabsence for the very purpose of preventing the witnessfrom testifying at a particular trial. That's theexception that's in the Federal Rules of Evidence. Youdon't have an exception, a hearsay exception, for justbeing responsible for the witness's unavailability. So practically, this couldn't come in undera hearsay objection in places that have the FederalRules of Evidence; is that right? MR. De NICOLA: Yes. If the Federal rulewere interpreted to require the intent to tamper, in anyjurisdiction that decided as a matter of their own hearsay policy that they wanted to govern theadmissibility of evidence along those lines, then, yes. JUSTICE SCALIA: Doesn't it have to beinterpreted that way? You don't contend it could beinterpreted differently? MR. De NICOLA: Well, I don't know exactlywhether the Federal rule has uniformly been -- beeninterpreted to require a specific intent. JUSTICE SCALIA: Just because it says so, Imean. MR. De NICOLA: Well, there is -- I don'tthink -- for example, I don't think there is a Federalcase that's been cited where the forfeiture has beendenied in a situation where the defendant murdered thewitness. JUSTICE SCALIA: Can you give us one casefrom the common law, just one, in which the procurementof a witness's absence exception to the ConfrontationClause was applied where there was no intent to preventthe witness from testifying? MR. De NICOLA: I don't -- I don't think Ihave the case -- JUSTICE SCALIA: I don't think you doeither. MR. De NICOLA: -- that -- that applied the rule. But I don't think there is a case thatarticulated the rule in a way that would have limitedits application. JUSTICE BREYER: The reason, I think, is --I think, if I understand Justice Scalia's question, takeordinary hearsay? MR. De NICOLA: Yes. JUSTICE BREYER: Okay. There's a reason forkeeping it out, though there are many exceptions. Nowtake that subset of ordinary hearsay where it was astatement made purposefully to go to trial. Now thereis especially good reason for keeping it out, so like adouble reason. And I think he finds it odd that we,under the common law, putting us back then, would saythere's an exception where there's especially goodreason for keeping it out, see, in the testimonial case,an exception where you go get the person murdered, butyou didn't do it purposefully. But -- but there is noexception in just where there's only the ordinary reasonfor keeping it out. It should seem to work the otherway around. Now, to me that suggests that maybe weshouldn't follow completely the common law as it evolvedin evidentiary principles. Maybe we have to assume anintent to allow the contours of the Confrontation Clause to evolve as the law of evidence itself evolves.Otherwise, we get caught up in these logicalcontradictions. What do you think of that? MR. De NICOLA: Well, I think that -- Ithink that we can certainly take account, for example,of situations that the common law might not have facedor might not have recognized as representing a problemof relevant evidence to a crime. JUSTICE SCALIA: You wouldn't want us to getcaught up in the limitations of the ConfrontationClause? MR. De NICOLA: No, I'm not saying that,Your Honor. What I'm saying is that I think that,although the Confrontation Clause under Crawford wouldbe accepted under the governing common-law rule at thetime, the governing common-law rule at the time includedthis forfeiture doctrine, and the forfeiture doctrine Ithink has been recognized -- has been based on the maximand the principle that no one may profit fromwrongdoing. JUSTICE BREYER: Do you see what my questionwas? My question is the same question I asked yourfellow counsel. My question is, since I led you to thepoint where you were willing to say maybe there is someflexibility here, what? That's where I'm having the trouble. What precisely are the principles I shouldfollow to prevent my going back to look at they dunkedwitches, but allowing the heart of Crawford to bemaintained. How do I do it? I don't know if you can answer thatquestion, but that's the problem that I'm having. MR. De NICOLA: Well, again, I think -- Ithink the resort to the -- to the maxim and theequitable principles that we know that common lawsubscribed to and that common law subscribed to thoseprinciples in this precise -- as a rule to decide how toresolve this particular kind of issue where thedefendant's wrongdoing makes the witness unavailable,that the -- that because the common law accepted thismaxim, that we can -- we can look and apply thoseprinciples to the situation even though there might nothave been the precise common-law case an all fours. JUSTICE ALITO: Does the record show whathappened after the police went and received thestatements by Ms. Avie? Did she ask -- did she ask tohave charges brought? Did the police file a complaint? MR. De NICOLA: The record doesn't show,Your Honor. The record doesn't show. JUSTICE ALITO: As far as the record shows,nothing happened? They took this statement and that was it? MR. De NICOLA: Yes, yes, in terms of --because that was a description of the event that led tothe admissibility of the statement. JUSTICE KENNEDY: Does the record show ordid the trial indicate anything that he told the policeon the prior occasion? They went into different roomsand they each gave statements? MR. De NICOLA: No. No. No. But -- but tothe extent that this is a case where the -- the crimeoccurs after there had been this prior report to anofficial, this case is somewhat closer to the witnesstampering scenario that my opponent says characterizedthe admissibility of these cases at common law. So it'snot -- it wouldn't be a -- a departure from the theorythat they are proposing to recognize that in thissituation it's -- it's essentially similar. JUSTICE KENNEDY: Well, I think it's anastonishingly broad exception you're asking for. On theother hand, testimonial statements are all that'sinvolved, and so that's a narrow class, and maybe thatbalances out. I'm not sure. But may I just ask and you can comment on itif you -- may I ask: The defendant gave notice that hewould testify? MR. De NICOLA: Prior to trial, there was adiscussion about what sort of defense he was going to beputting on, and he clearly indicated -- JUSTICE KENNEDY: California law requiresthat? MR. De NICOLA: No. No. It just -- JUSTICE KENNEDY: Or it does not require it? MR. De NICOLA: It doesn't require that. Itjust -- it happened that, in discussing theadmissibility of all this other evidence he wanted tobring in to put words in the mouth of the victim, thecourt inquired about how that would be linked up to thedefense of self-defense. JUSTICE KENNEDY: All right. MR. De NICOLA: And that's why thedefendant's lawyer indicated that the client would betestifying and putting on -- putting on a defense ofself-defense. Now, I think if you look at the -- if youlook at the maxim, the logic or the rational of theforfeiture rule, it doesn't admit of any exception formotive to tamper. The motive-to-tamper rule that myopponent is proffering here I think is alien to therationale of the maxim. The maxim is that no one shallprofit from wrongdoing. The superimposition of an intent requirement or a motive requirement wouldn'tchange the fact that, with that intent or without theintent, there would be the same profit from thewrongdoing. There would be the same damage to theintegrity of the criminal trial because thetruth-finding function of the criminal trial would bedamaged by allowing the wrongdoing to be used as thebasis for keeping out the statement of the -- of thewitness, of the victim of the crime, and allowing thedefendant to substitute in its stead his own one-sidedor half-true version of the -- JUSTICE KENNEDY: Suppose the unavailabilityis caused by the defendant's negligence. Defendantnegligently runs over the victim. MR. De NICOLA: I think if that were -- JUSTICE KENNEDY: I mean over the declarant. MR. De NICOLA: Yes. I think if that were acrime, certainly, I think it would clearly satisfy -- JUSTICE KENNEDY: Suppose it's negligence. MR. De NICOLA: If it's mere negligence? Ifit's mere negligence, certainly that's a -- that's atougher call, and it might be that in a situation ofnoncriminal conduct the intent to tamper conceivablycould play a role in elevating that conduct to the kindof wrongdoing that would trigger the rule. But I think as long as you have criminal conduct and certainly whereyou have a murder, the rule would be triggered and the-- the inquiry would then be whether or not there wascausation and whether or not there would be this profit.And the intent to tamper doesn't really relate to thepurpose of the rule to prevent the profiting. So you have the same profit, the same damageto the criminal justice system, and the same prejudiceto the State, which is denied the live testimony of thevictim. JUSTICE GINSBURG: Isn't there a problemthat was brought out in the briefs with -- this man isstanding trial before a jury that's going to determineguilt beyond a reasonable doubt, but if this testimonyis going to come in, the judge has to make some kind ofa preliminary finding that he killed her in advance ofthe jury making that determination. MR. De NICOLA: Yes, Your Honor. And thathappened -- that didn't happen in this case, so thatwould be, I think, the template for what would happen infuture cases. One I think preliminary point is that inthe California Supreme Court, Giles essentially concededthat the forfeiture rule, when it was otherwiseapplicable, does apply in the case where you have thewrongdoing being the same crime that's charged. JUSTICE SCALIA: If that's a fault, it's afault that also exists with the rule being argued byyour opponent, isn't it? MR. De NICOLA: I think that's true, YourHonor. And it's also -- it's not -- it's not unlike theway a Federal court would have a foundational hearing tomake a preliminary determination about the admissibilityof a co-conspirator's hearsay statement in a case wherethe crime charged is conspiracy. JUSTICE SCALIA: Maybe I have to take thatback. Maybe it -- it's very -- it would be very unusualthat someone would kill a victim in order to prevent hertestifying at a murder trial which is not yet inprospect because you haven't murdered her. So thesecases may be very rare. So maybe that is an advantageof her rule over yours, that you would very rarely haveto find the defendant guilty of the very crime for whichhe's being prosecuted in order to apply the -- theexception to the Confrontation Clause. MR. De NICOLA: I think it -- I think itwould be rare. JUSTICE SCALIA: Okay. MR. De NICOLA: But -- but it's not -- butit's not unheard of, and there is -- there is a pedigreefor it, and -- JUSTICE SCALIA: It would be rare on hertheory; it wouldn't be rare on yours. It happens allthe time on yours, I would think. MR. De NICOLA: But nevertheless I think the-- the idea that you could have the hearing even thoughit's the same issue that goes before the jury, I thinkis not an obstacle to applying the rule in this case. JUSTICE BREYER: I would think these casescome in -- this problem comes in with spousal abuse.Now, I don't know what the numbers are, but I bet youcould find numbers. I suspect, but I don't know, thatin many cases where there's a death in that kind ofsituation, maybe it is accidental. Maybe the -- maybethe man who is beating up his wife didn't really wanther to die. MR. De NICOLA: Yes. JUSTICE BREYER: All right. So that to me,I guess, suggests that that's in favor of your rule, Ithink. Isn't it? MR. De NICOLA: Yes, I think it -- I think,again, regardless of what defendant's intent is, therule and the logic of the rule applies. JUSTICE BREYER: And so that would be true,whether it was intended or whether it isn't intended. MR. De NICOLA: Yes. JUSTICE BREYER: Whether it's -- I mean, I'mnot sure how to even administer even a criminal/civildistinction. MR. De NICOLA: But I think the same, youknow, as was said before, the argument that what camein, in this case, was this damaging evidence that --that undermined the defendant's self-defense claim.Well, that evidence would come in even under the theorythat intent to tamper were required for -- for theforfeiture, as well as under our theory. CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: I think you're --it's certainly true that this issue would come up indomestic abuse cases -- MR. De NICOLA: Yes. CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: -- but I'm not surethat it would be at all limited. I assume you have, youknow, gang cases -- MR. De NICOLA: Yes. Yes. CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: -- any case in whichhave you familiarity between the victim and thedefendant, which, as I understand it, is the mosttypical case, but it's not simply in any way limited tothe domestic abuse cases. MR. De NICOLA: No. It wouldn't be limitedto the -- this case, it wouldn't be limited to the domestic abuse cases, Mr. Chief Justice. CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: No, I know your rulewouldn't -- MR. De NICOLA: Yes. CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: -- but thesituation in which the case arises -- MR. De NICOLA: Okay. -- CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: -- also would -- MR. De NICOLA: No. No. CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: -- certainly not.It comes up quite frequently, I would assume -- MR. De NICOLA: In gang cases, yes. CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: -- because you oftenhave an association with -- MR. De NICOLA: Yes. And I think it cancome up in cases of -- of abuse of children, as anotherexample. So I think because there's no equitableargument on the part of the defendant about why thisrule, this no-profit rule, would depend on an intent totamper, I think if you transport that back into thecommon law, the same rule and the same principles ofapplying, and you would -- you would have I think thesame results. Excuse me. I think -- again, well, I don't want to repeat myself, but I guess I just want to againemphasize that the -- that the logic of the rule reallydoesn't admit of an intent requirement. Nothing in thisCourt's cases has ever dictated an intent requirement.Nothing in the common-law cases has ever articulated anintent requirement, and in the common-law cases the rulethat we are advancing is justified by the maxim thatapplied at the common law, and it was also justified --well, at least I think an insight into how common lawwould have devalued the confrontation rights of thekiller against the witness can be seen in the dyingdeclarations case. Because even though they mightultimately have proved inadmissible on another ground,where the special criteria for the dying declarationcases was not met, those cases nevertheless areinstances where the evidence comes in against thedefendant where he kills the victim. The slayer's cases that were recognized atcommon law where no intent was required before somebodywould be barred from receiving an inequitabledistribution from an insurance policy, or from atestator, those cases were also decided at common lawunder this maxim. And the ultimate -- I think the ultimateelement to the analysis that proves dispositive is whether or not the defendant is benefitting from thewrongdoing. My opponent says that there's no benefitfrom the wrongdoing unless there is an intent to committhe wrongdoing in the first place, but that's palpablynot so because you -- because you have the benefit ifyou have the benefit. And to the extent that thereis -- an intent requirement might be perceived asnecessary to provide some level of moral blameworthinessin terms of exploiting the wrongdoing, that exploitationoccurs in any event when the defendant seeks to takeadvantage of the wrongdoing by making the objection and,as in this case, exploiting it even further at trial. So the equities of the situation -- there'sno, I think, personal equity that weighs in the balanceon the basis of -- in -- on the side of keeping --keeping the evidence out. Where there is the wrongdoingand the causation and the profit from the wrongdoing,the statement should come out -- should be admittedwithout regard to the mental state of the defendant. And on that I'll submit. CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, Counsel. Ms. Burkhardt, you have four minutesremaining. REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF MARILYN G. BURKHARDT ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONER MS. BURKHARDT: It State said that there isno equity on the side -- on Petitioner's side, andthat's simply not true. The statement is a testimonystatement; under Crawford, it clearly must be excluded;and for the reason that it is -- you know, he has beendeprived of his right to test the accuracy of thatstatement and to expose its falsity. He claims the statement isn't true; andunder Crawford, the -- the Framers have prescribed acategorical procedural rule for testing whether astatement is reliable, and that's the right toconfrontation; and he was deprived of that right andthis in turn derived him of fair -- of a fair trial. Now, the Framers in adopting theConfrontation Clause understood its parameters toinclude certain narrow exceptions. And the exception --one of the exceptions was a witness tampering exception;and that had a very rational basis, because what itmeant, in essence, is if the defendant is going to actagainst the criminal trial system from which he demandsand requires justice, he cannot at the same timeintentionally, deliberately manipulate and thwart thecriminal justice system by preventing the appearance of-- of necessary witnesses. So in that case, when hedoes something of -- to that effect, then it's fair, it's equitable and reasonable; he cannot profit from hisown wrong. And that maxim that a person cannot profitfrom his own wrong was meant to apply to that situation.It wasn't meant to apply in the broad, generalized,amorphous sense that the State suggests, because thatwould effectively substitute in some sort of amorphousnotions for reliability of -- I'm sorry, fairness -- forthe amorphous notions of reliability standard that thisCourt just rejected by overruling Roberts. In fact, what's happened here is the Stateis attempting to resuscitate Roberts and to eviscerateCrawford; and it is no accident that this whole issuearose after Crawford. This is a post-Crawfordinvention. It did not even exist before. And it's not-- the ink on Crawford was barely dry before the SupremeCourt of Kansas, like six weeks later, enacted this --this first forfeiture-by-causation rule; and then anumber of States such as California followed, and theyall cite each other as authority. But nothing before, because nothing beforeexisted. And when this Court in Crawford said we acceptthe rule of forfeiture by wrongdoing, we submit that theCourt couldn't possibly have meant this broad standardthat California created, because it did not exist at that time. We suggest that what this Court meant, as itindicated in Davis, is the -- essentially the Federalrule entitled forfeiture by wrongdoing, which isspecifically directed to witness tampering. And thatsaid -- and codifies, as this Court said in Davis, thedoctrine of forfeiture that has existed at the commonlaw; that was -- that has been understood for hundredsof years, that was carried forward and preserved inReynolds, and then it was further carried forward to theFederal rule. That's all we want. We want the rule as ithas always existed, not some new expanded rule thatthe -- California has just created to undermine andeviscerate my client's rights to confrontation. We arejust asking for a fair trial, which he did not get. Andthe notion that he is profiting. Well, in that sense,everyone profits from the Confrontation Clause. It wasdesigned to protect defendants from encroachment on theState. It was designed to provide defendants a fairtrial. JUSTICE GINSBURG: If you're right, it wouldgo back on the harmless error question, right? MS. BURKHARDT: Yes. It could go back to aharmless error question or perhaps a new trial. They can retrial -- retry him. They haveplenty of evidence on which to retry him in this case.This is why -- that's all we are asking for, a fairtrial, not a trial under a brand-new standard which theyconcocted for the purpose of eviscerating Crawford,which is exactly what happened. CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, Counsel.The case is submitted. (Whereupon, at : p.m., the case in theabove-entitled matter was submitted.) Aable :above-entitled: :absence : :: :: :: :: :absence-of-th...:absolutely :abuse ::, ::accept :accepted ::accident :accidental :accidentally:account :accuracy :accusations ::accused :: :accusing ::act :adhered :administer :admissibility: : ::, ::admissible :: ::admission ::admit :: :admits :admitted ::adopt :adopted :: :: :adopting :advance :advancing :advantage :aggressive :::aggressor :agree :alien :ALITO ::, ::alleged :allow : :allowing :amorphous :::,:,:analysis :analyzing :Angeles :,announcing:answer :: :answered :: :,antecedent :antecedents:,,anyway :apparently :appeals ::,,:appearance:APPEARAN...:apples-and-or...::applicable :application :: :applied :,applies :,::apply :: :: :,applying ::approved :April :argued :arguing :: :argument ::, :,: :: ::arguments:arises :arose :articulated ::asked :asking :: :: :aspects :assault ::assessmentassociation::assume :,: ::assumes :assuming :,astonishinglyatheist :attacked :attempt :attempting:authorities:,authority :automatically::available :: :,Avie : :aware :: :awful :a.m : :Bback :: :: ::,balance :balances :barely :barred :based ::basic :basically ::basis :: :: :beat :beating :behalf :,:,, :: :believe ::benefit ::,,benefits :benefitting :bet :better ::beyond :big :Bill : :blameworthin...:blow :board :boat :books :bore :bother :boundaries:boy :brand-new :Breyer :,:,,,:,,:, ::, :: ::,,:Breyer's :brief :briefs ::bring :broad ::,broader :brought :: :Burkhardt ::, :,,:,, ::,,:,,:, ::, ::, ::, ::,,,:,, : :,, ::, :: :,: :,: :: :,: :comes :: :: :coming ::comment :commit :common :,: :, :: :,: :,:, ::,,:, :: :,,:, :: ::, ::,,: ::,,,:common-law: :, ::,,:, ::,comparison :complaint :completely::,,,: :,:, ::,,,:,,,:, ::, ::,,:,,:,,,:,,,: ::, ::buttressed :CC : :cabins :Cal :,California ::, : ::, :: :: ::, :: :,:California's: :call :Cambridge :Carlson :carried :,case :, :,:,, :: : :,: ::,,: :,:, ::,,:,,,:,,,: :: :,: :,: :,:, :: :,:, :: :: :,,cases : :: :,: :,:, :: :,,:,,,: :: ::, ::, ::, ::,,,:,case-in-chief:categorical:caught :,causation :: ::cause : :caused :: ::causes :centuries :century :,:certain :certainly :: ::, :: :challenged :chance :,change :characterizedcharged :::charges ::check :,Chief :,: :,:,,:, ::, :: :,: :,: :,,:,,: :child :children :cite : :cited : :,:, ::civil : :claim : :: : :: :claims :,:class :Clause :,:,,,: :,:, :: ::, :: :clear :clearly :: ::client : :client's :closer :codifies :coincidence :come : :: :,: :: :,: :condition :conduct :: :confined ::conforms :confrontation:, :,: :,:, ::,,:, ::,,:,,:, ::,,,: :: ::, :: :,:,consciousnessconsiderationsconspiracy :Constitutionconstitutionalconstitutional...:::::contend :contest :context :contours ::,,:conceded :conceivablycontradict :contradictionsconcept :::concluded :concluding :conclusion :concocted ::contrary :controlled :convicted :correct :,: :: correcting :counsel :: ::course : :,:court :, :: :,:, ::,,:,,:, :: :,: :: ::,,,:,courts ::,Court's :co-conspirator's::Crawford ::, ::, :,:, :: :,: ::, ::,,:created :: :credibility :crime :: :: :: :,: :,criminal :: :,:, :,:,criminal/civil:criteria :: :cross :cross-examina...: : ::,cross-examine: : ::DD :damage ::damaged :damaging :Davis : ::De : ::,,: :,: :,:, ::, ::,,,: :,:, :,:,,,:,,: :,: :,:, ::,,:,,,,dead :death :,:, ::,,: :: ::decades :decide :decided ::decision :declarant ::, :: :,:declaration: :,:, ::,, :: :,:,,,:, ::, ::, ::,,,:declarations: :,: :deemed :deeply :defendant :: : :: ::, :: :,:, :: :,: ::, :: :,: :: ::,,:defendants ::,defendant's: :: :: :::,definitely :definition ::deliberately: :demands :denied ::departure :depend ::depends :deprived ::,Deputy :derived :described :describing :description :designed ::,determination: :determine :: :detract :devalued :dictated :die : :difference :: :different :: :: ::differently :difficult ::diminish :direct :directed :discussing :discussion :dispositive::dissented :distinction: :: :distribution:doctrine :: :domestic :: :DONALD :: :door :,double :doubt :dozens :drawing :::,drive : :dry :dunked :dunking :DWAYNE :dying : ::,,: :,: :,:, :,:,,:,,,: :,:,,,,:,D.C :EE : :, :: :effect :effectively :either :element ::::elevating :eligible :embedded :embodied :emphasize :enacted :defense : :disqualificationelements : ESQ :, ::encroachment:engaged :England :English :::enter :entirely :: :entitled :equitable ::, :: :: :equities :equity ::error :,:,especially ::,:,essence :essentially :: :event : ::evidence :: :: : ::, :,: :: :,: ::, ::, :: :evidentiaryeviscerate ::::evisceratingevolve :evolved :evolves :exactly :: :example :: :: ::exception :,: :,:, ::,,,: ::,,: :: :,exceptions: ::,excluded :: :excusable :Excuse :exist :,:,existed ::,,: :: ::,exists :expanded :expansion :expansive ::explain :explaining :exploitationexploiting :::explore :expose :extent :: ::Ffaced :fact : :: :: :: :: :factor :factors :facts :factual :,fair : ::, :: :fairly :fairness :falsity :familiarity:family :fanciful :far :fault :,favor :Federal :: :,:, :: ::,fellow :felon :fight :figures :file :find :,: :finding :: :,:,,:finds :first : :: :flexibility :follow : :: ::followed ::following :foreclose ::forfeit :forfeited :forfeits :forfeiture :: :,: :: :,: :: :,: :: ::,forfeiture-by-...forth : :::forward :,found :foundational:four :fours :Framers :,framing :,frequently:friend :,: :friends :fully :function :further :,: :future :GG : :, :: :gang ::general : :: :generalized :Giles : ::Ginsburg :,:, :,:, ::,,,:,,,: :,,:, :: :girlfriend :give :,: :given : :gives :giving :go :, :: ::, ::goes :,: :going : ::,,: :,:,,,,:, :: : ::, :good ::,gotten :govern :governing ::grave :great :ground :grounds :guarantee :guess :: :guilt :guilty :,: Hhalf-true :hand :happen :,happened :: :: ::happens ::harmless ::,harmless-error:hear :heard :hearing ::hearsay : ::, :: ::,,,: ::,,,: :,:heart :highly : :holding :hole :Honor :: :: :: :: :hundreds :hypothetical::Iidea :ignore :imminent ::,,impeach :impending: :: :importance :important ::impression:inadmissible: :inception :include :included :inconceivable: :incorporate: :independent:indicate :: :indicated :: :,:indicates :indication :indicted :inequitable:infliction :inform :informed :injustice :ink :inquired :inquiry :: :insight :instance :::instances :: :insurance :integrity :intend ::intended ::intent :,:, :: :: :,: :,,: :: :: :,,: :,intentionally: :interested ::interpreted: :,,introduce :invention :involve ::involved :: :involving :irrelevant ::isolated :issue :,:, :: :: :: :Jjoined :judge ::jumped :jurisdiction:jury : :: :justice :, ::,, ::,,,:,,,: :,,: :,,:,,,: :,:,,,:,,,: :,:,,:,,,,: :,,:,,,:,,,: :,,: :,:, ::, ::,,:,,,:,,:,,:,,,: ::,,: :,:, ::, :: :,: ::,,,:,, :: :,:, :,: :,: :,:,,:,,,:,,,:,,,,: ::, ::justifiable :justified :,KKansas :keep :keeping ::,,,: :,Kennedy ::, :,:, ::,,: :: :,:, :: :,: :,:Kennedy's:kept :,,kick :kill :, ::, ::,,,: :killed : :: :,: :: :killer :killing :kills : :kind : :: ::kinds : :knew : :knifepoint :know :,:,,,: :: :: ::, :: :,: :knowledge ::Llanguage :large :Laughter : : :law :, ::, :: :,: :,:, ::,,:, :: :,,:, :: :,:, :,: :: ::,,,:lawyer ::leaving :led : :left :legal :legitimate :letter :,,let's : ::,,:level :lie :limitations:limited ::,,,line : :: :lines :linked :litigation :: :live : :logic :: :logical :long : :look : :: ::, ::looking :Lord ::Los :,lot :, :: :,Mmachine :maintained :making :: :: :man : :: :manipulate:MARILYN ::, : :married ::, ::matter : :: :maxim ::, ::, :: :mean : : :: :,: :: ::, :: :meaning ::,meaningful :means :meant :: :,: :meet :member :mental :mere : ::,met : :mind : :,::minutes :moment ::moral :Morley :,Morley's :::mortal :Morton :motive :: :motive-to-tam...:mouth :murder ::,,: :,: ::murdered ::, :: :: ::murderer :: :murderers:murdering: :murders ::,,: :NN :, :NACDL :narrow :: ::nasty :necessarily: :necessary :: :need : ::, :needed :,:negligence:,,,negligently:neither :never : :: :: ::nevertheless: ::new : ::Nicola : ::,,: :,: :,:, ::, ::,,,: :,:, :,:,,,:,,: :,: :,:, ::,,:,,,,nonconfrontat...noncriminal::nontestimonial: :,notice :,:notion :notions :,no-profit :number :numbers :::OO : :oath :,object :objection ::obstacle :obvious :obviously :: :occasion :occurs :::odd :officer :,:, ::official :oh :okay :, :: ::ones : :one-sided :opened :opening :operated :operation :opinion :opinions :opponent :: ::opportunity: :oral : : ::order : ::,ordinary : :,overruling:PP :PAGE :painted : :painting :palpably :parameters: :Pardon :part : ::particular :: ::particularly:, :party :peculiarly :pedigree :people :: ::perceived :perception:person : ::, :: : :: :: :personal :pertinent :Petitioner :: :, ::, :Petitioner's :picture :place : :places :planning :play :please : :: :plenty :point :: :: :points :,police :,: :,:, :: :policy : ::portray :possibly :post-Crawfordpowerfully :::practical :practically:precise :,precisely :prejudice :prejudicial :preliminary:, :prerequisite:prescribed :present :: :presented :preserved :presupposed::pretty :prevent ::, :: :: :: :preventing: :pre- ::principle :principles ::,,,:prior :,:probably :problem :: :: ::procedural:proceeding ::process :procured :: :: :procurement: :procures :proffering :profit :: :: :,: :,profiting ::profits :proper : ::proposing :prosecutedprosecution::prosecution's:prosecutor:prospect :protect :protections ::proved :proves :provide ::provisions :purpose :: :purposefully:,purposes :put : :::puts :putting ::,,p.m :Qqualified :question :: :: :,: ::,,,: :,questioning:questions :quite : ::quotations :quote :RR :rapidly :rare :,:,rarely :rational :: :rationale :: :read :realistic :really : :: :: :: ::reason : ::,,,: :reasonable: :reasons :rebut :rebuttal : :: : :: :received :receiving :recognize :,:recognized ::, :record ::,,,:regard :: :regardless ::regimes :rejected :relate : :relevant :reliability :: :,reliability-ass...:reliability-bas...:,reliable :remainder :remaining :rendered :,rendering :repeat :report :reported :representing:require :,: :: :, : :showed :showing :shown : :shows : :: ::side : ::significant:required :: :requirement: :,:, :,,:requirementsrequires :::reserve :resolve :resort :respect :,:, :Respondent: : :response :responsible ::responsive :restrictions ::,,results :resuscitate:retrial :retry :,Reynolds ::right : :,:, ::,,:,,: :: : ::, ::,,: :,,: :: :,: :,rights :: :: :: :ripen :river :Roberts :: :,:,,:, :: :,: ::,,:,,,,: :,:role :rooms :rule :,: :,,:, :,,: : ::, :,:,,,:, :: ::, ::,,:,, ::,,,:, :: :,: :,: :,:,,:, :,: :,: :,:, ::, ::,, :: :,:, ::,,:, ::, ::,,rules : :: :: :,:runs :SS : :satisfy :saying :: :: :,says :,: :: :: :Scalia :, :: : ::, ::, ::, ::, ::, ::,,: :,: :Scalia's :: :scared :scenario :scope : :sealed :see : :seeks :seen : :self-defense: :,: : :: :sense : :: :: ::separate :: :: :set :sets : :share :shooting :show : :: :,: :,: :specifically: ::, ::speculative :spousal :spouse : :: :,stand :,standard :: ::, :standing :start : :state : :: :, ::, :: :: :,:stated :,statement ::,,,: ::, ::, :: : :: :,: :: : :: :,,:,statements :,:, :,: :,:, ::,States :,: ::stead :STEVENS:, ::,,stood :strong :similar :simply : :: :,: ::single : :situation ::, :: : :: :: :: :: :situations ::six :slayer's :solely :Solicitor :somebody :somewhat :sorry : ::::sort : :: ::sorts :sounds :SOUTER :: :special :specific :: ::, : subject :submit :submitted :::subscribed:,subsequent:subset :substitute ::substituted:succeeded :sufficient :suggest :suggested :: :suggesting :: :suggests :: ::superfluous:::superimpositionsupports :suppose :,,: ::,,: :,supposed :: ::supposition:Supreme :,: :: :: :sure : ::,surpassed :suspect :suspend :sweeping :system :: :,TT :,tack :take : :: :: ::, :: :talk :talked :talking ::, :tamper :: :: :: :tampering: :: :tell :telling :template :tends :terms : :test :testator :testify :,: :,: : :: ::testifying :: :: :testimonial :: :,:,,: : ::,,: ::testimony ::, :: : :: :,:, :: :: :,: :: :,:testing :Thank : :: :theory :,: ::,things :,: :think :, :: :,: ::, :: :: :: :,: :,: :,: :,:,,: :,:, ::,, ::,,,:, ::, ::,,:, ::, ::,,,,: :,:,,,: :,:thinking :thought :: :threatened ::thwart :time :,: :: :: ::, :: :today : ::told :totally :: :tougher :transport :treated :trial : ::,,:, :: :: : :: :: ::, ::, ::trier :trigger :triggered :trouble :true :,,: :: ::,truth :,truthfulnesstruth-finding::try :trying :Tuesday :turn :two : :typical ::Uultimate ::ultimately :unavailability: :unavailable: :,:, ::undermine:undermined:understand :: :: :,: :: :: :understanding:understood: :unheard :uniform :uniformly :United :,:unpleasant :unusual :upset :usually :Vv :validation :vengeful :version :versus :viciously :victim :,:, ::,,:,, :: :,: :: : victim's ::view : :viewed :vindication :virtually ::Wwant : :: :: :,:,wanted ::Washington :wasn't : ::, :: ::water :,:way :,: :: ::, ::ways :weaker :weeks :weighs :went : :: ::Weren't :We'll :wife :willing :witch :,witches ::witness ::, ::,,:, ::, :: :, :th : : :th : : : : : : ::, :: :: :: ::witnessed :witnesses :,: :witness's :: :: :,:woman :::words : :work :world :worried :wouldn't ::, :: :: ::, :wrong :,: ::,wrongdoing: :: :,: ::,,,,:, ::Xx :,Yyears : :- : :: : :th :: : 