 IN THE SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - xJOHN D. ASHCROFT, FORMER :ATTORNEY GENERAL, ET AL., : Petitioners : v. : No. -JAVAID IQBAL, ET AL. :- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - x Washington, D.C. Wednesday, December , The above-entitled matter came on for oralargument before the Supreme Court of the United Statesat : a.m.APPEARANCES:GEN. GREGORY G. GARRE, ESQ., Solicitor General, Department of Justice, Washington, D.C.; on behalf of the Petitioners.ALEXANDER A. REINERT, ESQ., Yonkers, N.Y.; on behalf of the Respondents. C O N T E N T SORAL ARGUMENT OF PAGEGEN. GREGORY G. GARRE, ESQ. On behalf of the Petitioners ALEXANDER A. REINERT, ESQ. On behalf of the Respondents REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OFGEN. GREGORY G. GARRE, ESQ. On behalf of the Petitioners P R O C E E D I N G S (: a.m.) CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: We will hearargument first this morning in Case -, Ashcroftversus Iqbal. General Garre. ORAL ARGUMENT OF GEN. GREGORY G. GARRE ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONERS GENERAL GARRE: Thank you,Mr. Chief Justice, and may it please the Court: This case concerns the qualified immunity ofhigh-ranking government officials, like the AttorneyGeneral of the United States and Director of the FBI,and supervisory liability claims under Bivens based onthe alleged wrongdoing of much lower level officials. In concluding that the complaint in thiscase was sufficient to subject the high-rankingofficials, like the Attorney General, to the demands ofcivil discovery, the court of appeals erred in twofundamental and interrelated respects. First, the court erred in concluding thatthe complaint stated a violation of clearly establishedrights by the former Attorney General and Director ofthe FBI, because under this Court's precedents thecomplaint fails adequately to plead the personal involvement of those high-ranking officials for thealleged discriminatory acts of lower level officials. And, second -- JUSTICE GINSBURG: General Garre, will youclarify one point? You said "fails to state" enough toovercome qualified immunity. But, usually, these -- thepleading is analyzed discretely. This is a (b)()motion, is it? GENERAL GARRE: It is a (b)() motion. JUSTICE GINSBURG: And so that tests justthe pleading. Qualified immunity is an affirmativedefense which hasn't even been stated formally. Soisn't it entirely conceivable that you could have a goodcomplaint judged from the (b)() point of view, butwhen the qualified immunity defense is asserted, theplaintiff isn't able to come up with enough to stave offa summary judgment motion? GENERAL GARRE: No, for two reasons,Justice Ginsburg. The first is that this Court hasrecognized that a defense can be a basis for a motion todismiss under (b)(). It did so most recently in theJones versus Bock case. And -- and it's establishedpractice in the Federal courts, in part because of thisdecision, that appeals from the denial of a motion todismiss on the ground of qualified immunity are appropriate. And, second, as the Second Circuitrecognized -- and we think it got this right -- thequestion of whether a complaint adequately pleads thepersonal involvement of government officials goesdirectly to the question of qualified immunity -- andthe court of appeals said that on page a of itsdecision -- because it goes to the question of whetherthese defendants have violated any clearly establishedrights. And so the question of supervisory liabilityin this case we think is essential to the question ofwhether or not the Attorney General and Director of theFBI are entitled to qualified immunity. And in denyingthe government's -- the Petitioner's motion to dismisson the ground of qualified immunity, the district courterroneously deprived these Petitioners of theprotections of that important defense. JUSTICE SOUTER: Well, Mr. Garre, isn'tthere more involved here than simply derivativeliability for the acts of others? I -- I've got a bunchof excerpts from the complaint, but let me just go toone, on section -- paragraph, rather, . That chargesthe defendants Ashcroft and Mueller with willfully andmaliciously designing a policy. It doesn't sound like respondeat superior. I mean, it seems to -- to chargethem directly with coming up with what these people arecomplaining about. GENERAL GARRE: Well, I think that that'sfair, Justice Souter. I mean, I think that there aretwo general types of allegations in this complaint. Oneset of allegations says that Petitioners came up withthis policy, and if you look at those allegations -- andI think I would point you to paragraph and paragraphs and -- those allegations we think describe apolicy which is neutral on its face, a policy of holdingpersons determined by the FBI to be of interest inconnection with a terribly important investigation untilthey have been cleared. And so we think that those allegations can'tbe enough to sustain these -- to subject thesePetitioners to -- to civil discovery. JUSTICE SOUTER: Well, why don't -- may Ijust interrupt you there? Why don't you think thereference here in the language I just read, to designinga policy, includes the policy which is several timesdescribed as being one which called for holding -- forArab Muslim men of certain countries of origin withoutreference to any penal purpose? I mean, that -- I thinkthat is adequately described in there as part of the policy. GENERAL GARRE: I think if you look at thecomplaint, that -- that interpretation doesn't hold up.And in particular, I would point you to paragraph ,which is on page a of the joint appendix -- I'msorry, the petition appendix. And what that paragraphsays is that these allegedly discriminatorydeterminations, classifications, were made by FBIofficials in the field, not Petitioners here, the formerAttorney General and director of the FBI. Andimportantly, these determinations were made, quote, andthis comes from paragraph , "without specific criteriaor uniform classification system." And so that's what's going on here. You'vegot a complaint that alleges that specific lower levelofficials are making these determinations. That's inparagraphs and . You've got a complaint allegingthat these determinations are being made on the basis ofad hoc criteria. That's page . And then you havethese overarching allegations that the Attorney Generaland the Director of the FBI knew about, approved, andcondoned these discriminatory conduct of much lowerlevel officials. CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: You don't -- youdon't dispute that, whatever the policy was, that it was approved and condoned by the Attorney General and theDirector of the FBI? GENERAL GARRE: We've accepted that at somelevel that this complaint maintains, and it's inparagraph , that there was a policy of holdingsuspects until they -- the suspects were determined tobe of interest by the FBI, until they were cleared bythe FBI in connection with this investigation. Thatpolicy we have not disputed, and that policy we think isa -- is a factually neutral, perfectly lawful lawenforcement response to the / attacks, resulting in-- CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, it may -- itmay very well be, but isn't it, for purposes of acomplaint, sufficient to raise a due process claim bysaying what they say? In other words, you -- you mayhave a very good defense to it. You may have somethingthat does not ever get beyond -- get them beyond thepoint of summary judgment. But for them simply tocharge that there was a policy in which they picked uppeople and they held them until they were cleared, i.e.,sort of demonstrated to be innocent in some way, that atleast on the face of it seems to -- to state a dueprocess problem under the Fifth Amendment, doesn't it? GENERAL GARRE: Not with respect to the Petitioners here, the former Attorney General and theDirector of the FBI, because -- and I think inevaluating -- JUSTICE SOUTER: Even -- even if, as theChief Justice said, they knew and condoned the policy? GENERAL GARRE: Well, the question is whichpolicy, what policy? And if you look at the complaint,I think the only policy that the allegations bear outwith respect to the Attorney General and the Director ofthe FBI is a policy described in paragraph of holdingsuspects until cleared. The -- JUSTICE SOUTER: Well, you may be -- you --I mean, you may be right. I think there's -- there's alot of tension in the -- in the allegations here. I --I grant you that. But isn't the proper way to deal withthose tensions at this stage to file a motion for a moredefinite statement and find out for sure? GENERAL GARRE: No. I mean, certainly thatis one option. I mean, the Court mentioned that in theCrawford-El case, and that's an option. But just as inthe Bell Atlantic case, where that was an option, too,and where the defendants in that case did not availthemselves of their opportunity to file a motion for amore definite statement, the Petitioners here did not doso and they were not required to do so. They had a different option under the Federal Rules of CivilProcedure to move for dismissal under (b)(). Theyexercised that option, and the complaint -- thecomplaint should be dismissed because it fails to statea claim against those individuals. JUSTICE SOUTER: The difference, it -- andmaybe this isn't a sufficient difference. But thedifference in my mind between this and Bell Atlantic wasthat, in Bell Atlantic you had a set of allegations inwhich in -- in effect it was an either-or choice. Therewere two possibilities consistent with the allegationsin Bell Atlantic. One was a conspiracy possibility; onewas a -- a lawful parallel conduct possibility. Andthere just wasn't any way to pick one as being a moreprobable interpretation of what they were getting at. Here the problem is not so much an either-or choice as to which we are clueless, but a justvagueness or uncertainty. Does the -- Does the talkabout the -- the racial criterion go to the policy asdevised or the policy as implemented? And so on. Andit seems to me that here we're -- we're in a kind ofconceptually a squishier situation and it might bebetter to get a more definite statement than to say,well, you -- you've got to make a choice, and there's noway to make a choice. GENERAL GARRE: That's one of the reasonswhy I think it's important to distinguish between thedifferent sets of claims. I think the general claim ofa policy of holding suspects until cleared is much morelike the Bell Atlantic situation, where you have gotfactually neutral allegations, perfectly lawful lawenforcement conduct to have a policy that says, FBIagents, if you determine these people are of interest,hold them until they are cleared so that we are notreleasing people that are potentially suspects orwrongdoers in this investigation. JUSTICE GINSBURG: General Garre, I thinkthat the Bell Atlantic case -- and -- and I'm sure thatJustice Souter will correct me if I'm wrong about this,but most of it is about what it takes -- what are theessential elements of a Sherman section charge. Andthere's a big mistake that the pleaders are making; thatis, there has to be an agreement, and they haven'talleged an agreement. This case seems to be quite different. AndI think you have taken Bell Atlantic, frankly, for morethan is there. That is, twice -- at least twice in theopinion, the Court says, we are not developing anyheightened pleading rules. Form is as good today asit was yesterday. What we are talking about is a missing -- is an essential element to a substantiveclaim for relief. I thought that's what -- GENERAL GARRE: And we're not asking for aheightened pleading standard, Justice Ginsburg. I thinkwhat's missing here fundamentally is a substantiverequirement of the cause of action -- Bivens -- forsupervisory liability which is an affirmative link.Subsidiary allegations suggesting a plausibleaffirmative link between the discriminatory actionsallegedly taken by much lower level officials in thefield and the Director of the FBI and the AttorneyGeneral of the United States. CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: That -- that soundslike an argument on the merits of the Bivens claim,rather than an argument going to qualified immunity. GENERAL GARRE: It -- it's not -- I mean, in-- in a similar way that this Court considered the scopeof a Bivens cause of action in the Wilkie case recentlyand in the Hartman case recently. In both of thosecases the Court recognized that the scope of the Bivenscause of action goes directly to the question ofqualified immunity. And here, in order to evaluate whether thepleadings are adequate against the Attorney General andthe Director of the FBI, you have to know what the substantive standard under Bivens is for a supervisoryliability type claim. You have to know -- just as youdid in Bell Atlantic, you had to know the substantivestandard of antitrust law in this kind of context. Hereyou have to know the substantive standard of what'srequired to subject the Attorney General of the UnitedStates or the Director of the FBI to potentialliability, civil damages, burdens of civil discovery,for supervisory liability for the claims of much lowerlevel officials. JUSTICE BREYER: How does -- how does thiswork in an ordinary case? I should know the answer tothis, but I don't. It's a very elementary question.Jones sues the president of Coca-Cola. His claim is thepresident personally put a mouse in the bottle. Now, hehas no reason for thinking that. Then his lawyer says:Okay, I'm now going to take seven depositions of thepresident of Coca-Cola. The president of Coca-Colasays: You know, I don't have time for this; there's nobasis. He's -- he's -- I agree he's in good faith, buthe's -- there is no basis. Okay, I don't want to go andspend the time to answer a question. Where in the rules does it say he can go tothe judge and say, judge -- his lawyer will say -- myclient has nothing to do with this; there's no basis for it; don't make him answer the depositions, please? GENERAL GARRE: And I think it would be -- JUSTICE BREYER: Where does it say that inthe rules? GENERAL GARRE: It -- it says that, as thisCourt interpreted it, in Rule of the rules, JusticeBreyer. JUSTICE BREYER: In Rule ? GENERAL GARRE: Yes, because in Rule -- JUSTICE BREYER: I thought Rule was movefor a more definite statement. GENERAL GARRE: No. Rule is the -- is theplain statement showing entitlement to relief. It isthe rule interpreted in Bell Atlantic, and there theBell Atlantic Court said that the plaintiff had theobligation to show a plausible entitlement to relief.And -- JUSTICE BREYER: He shows a plausibleentitlement. He says -- there's no doubt it's a claimif the president of Coca-Cola did put the mouse in thebottle. It's just there is no basis for thinking that. GENERAL GARRE: It's -- JUSTICE BREYER: So he wants to go to thejudge and say: I've set out a claim here; I copied itright out of the rules. All right? Now, what allows the judge to stop this deposition? GENERAL GARRE: Rule does, as interpreted-- JUSTICE BREYER: Where? GENERAL GARRE: -- in Bell Atlantic, becausethat is not a plausible entitlement of a claim to relief-- JUSTICE SOUTER: But, Mr. Garre, you areusing the word "plausible" or you're taking the word"plausible" out of Bell Atlantic, I think, and you areusing it to mean something that probably can be provento be true. Bell Atlantic drew that distinction. They-- the plausibility there is a plausibility that if theyprove what they say, they will -- they will establish aviolation. GENERAL GARRE: I certainly agree with you.You don't have to show that it probably is, but you haveto show facts suggesting -- above the speculative level.And just as in Bell Atlantic -- JUSTICE SOUTER: Okay. I -- I think you areright that if somebody makes just a totally bizarreallegation that nobody in the world could takeseriously, that -- that the issue can be raised. But in Justice Breyer's case, the -- that --that may be the case if the claim is that the president of Coke was -- was personally putting mouses in bottles.But the claim, it seems to me, that the Attorney Generalor the Director of the FBI was establishing a policy ofno release until cleared or a policy that centered onpeople with the same characteristics as the hijackersdoes not have that kind of bizarre character to it and,I think, would not run afoul of the -- of theplausibility standard. GENERAL GARRE: Well, we certainly think --I mean, in Bell Atlantic, the Court said common economicexperience would -- would support its determination inthat case. We think here, and I think the brief filedby former attorney generals from several differentadministrations makes this point as well, that commongovernment experience would suggest that the AttorneyGeneral of the United States is not involved in the sortof microscopic decisions -- JUSTICE SOUTER: Well, I would agree, butthis is about as far from common government operation asone can get. GENERAL GARRE: The -- and I think that getsto one of the fundamental problems with the SecondCircuit decision, is it held the extraordinary contextof the / attacks and the aftermath of those attacksagainst the Petitioners in this case. And that's problematic, not only from the qualified-immunityperspective of what it's going to be like for officialsnext time they have to -- JUSTICE SOUTER: Oh, I know, but the courtscan't -- GENERAL GARRE: -- deal with something likethat. JUSTICE SOUTER: The courts can't ignore theextraordinary circumstances, either. GENERAL GARRE: But it's problematic becauseyou have to look at the reality of the job of theAttorney General of the United States and the Directorof the FBI. In general, these are people who areresponsible not only for the litigating divisions withinthe Department of Justice, the Federal Bureau ofInvestigation, the Drug Enforcement Agency, enforcingcountless laws. These are people who haveextraordinarily busy schedules. And ordinary -- JUSTICE BREYER: I'm sorry, I just don'thave the answer to my question. I must not have said itproperly. Imagine, way before Twombly -- these ruleshave been in existence for decades. So we go back yearsago. Certainly, there have been many cases where, forwhatever reasons, the plaintiffs included allegationsthat were just factually very unlikely. I want to know where the judge has the power to control discovery inthe rules. That's -- I should know that. I can'tremember my civil procedure course. Probably, it wastaught on day . (Laughter.) GENERAL GARRE: Well, Rule governsdiscovery, Justice Breyer. JUSTICE BREYER: Well, I see that. It saysa person has a right to go and get discovery. Itdoesn't say they only control it under certainprovisions which don't seem to me to apply to the trulyabsurd discovery. There must be some power a judge has. And the second question I'm going to askyou, when you tell me what that power is, whichapparently I'm not going to find out -- but -- butwhatever that power is, which must be there, why doesn'tthat work to solve your problem? GENERAL GARRE: Well, the power to -- togovern discovery doesn't solve the problem for the samereason that it didn't in Bell Atlantic. The Courtspecifically said we are not going to rely on districtcourts to weed out potentially meritless claims becausewe recognize the burdens that discovery can impose inthe civil and in trust contexts. And those burdens aremultiplied many times here where you are talking about subjecting to -- subjecting high level governmentofficial to the burdens of civil discovery. I think fundamentally we think you don't getto the question of how do district judges controldiscovery, because they haven't gotten through thegateway of pleading an adequate claim. And if I cangive you the substantive rule that we think is on pointhere -- this Court, in the Rizzo case, which is asection case, considered the question of claimsagainst high-ranking officials, the Mayor of the City ofPhiladelphia, the Police Commissioner of the City ofPhiladelphia, for alleged wrongdoing by individualpolice officers there. And there -- in that case, the Court heldthat a plaintiff under section has to establish, asa matter of law, an affirmative link between the acts ofthe -- the subordinates and the higher-level officials.And we think that that substantive rule in section at a minimum carries over to the Bivens context. JUSTICE BREYER: Well, what -- I mean, mybasic question, which I really want to hear the answerto, is the Attorney General is very busy and what hedoes is very important. The president of Coca-Cola isvery busy. The president of General Motors is very busy-- and very busy at the moment. And what he -- (Laughter.) JUSTICE BREYER: What they are doing is veryimportant. There are quite a few people in this countrywho aren't even in the government, and what they do isvery important and they are very busy. And so if thereis something in these rules that allows people to bringsuits without any factual foundation, even though the --the complaint says there is -- JUSTICE GINSBURG: How about -- JUSTICE BREYER: I'll bet those people arebeing harassed -- JUSTICE GINSBURG: How about Rule to takecare of Justice Breyer's problem? The judge would sayto the lawyer: Now, you signed this pleading, and whenyou made -- you signed it, you made certainrepresentations, and I'm going to read the Riot Act toyou if it turns out that this is a frivolous petition. GENERAL GARRE: Sure. That's oneprotection, Justice Ginsburg. And -- CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Reading the Riot -- GENERAL GARRE: And this Court -- CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Reading the Riot Actto the lawyer is protection against the Attorney Generaland the Director of the FBI after they're hauled in fordiscovery or subjected to depositions and the judge finds out -- GENERAL GARRE: We -- CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: I'm sorry, Mr.Garre. -- the judge finds out that there wasn't infact a sufficient basis for it, and that -- that willshow them, if they get read the Riot Act by a judge? GENERAL GARRE: It's certainly not adequateprotection, Mr. Chief Justice. JUSTICE GINSBURG: I was responding toJustice Breyer's Coca-Cola president. I think Rule would work quite well to answer that. GENERAL GARRE: I would have thought thatthis Court's decision in Bell Atlantic put an end tothose sorts of claims where the court -- JUSTICE STEVENS: Well, Mr. Garre, it seemsto me you are really arguing -- I am very sympathetic tothe argument -- that if there was no plausible claim inBell Atlantic, in which there was a direct allegation ofa conspiracy in violation of section , was rejectedbecause the Court thought it implausible, a fortiorithis claim is implausible because it's got exactly thesame problems in that you don't want to subject theseimportant people to all the inconvenience of discovery.It seems to me these cases are very, very similar. GENERAL GARRE: Absolutely, Justice Stevens.And certainly that's our position. We think it's -- JUSTICE STEVENS: Of course, in both of thecases, the job of the district judge would have beenmade much easier if one of the defendants had filed anaffidavit denying those allegations, but nobody has donethat in either case. GENERAL GARRE: No one did it in eithercase, but in both cases the defendants are entitled todismissal. I think this case is even stronger, not onlybecause we think that the factual allegations are lessplausible, but because we have the substantive rule oflaw that comes from Bivens, that you have to establishthe affirmative link of alleged wrongdoing between muchlower level officials, the FBI agents in the field here.And the Attorney General of the United States and theDirector of the FBI, common experience shows, simplyaren't involved in those sorts of granular decisions. JUSTICE KENNEDY: I have two questions -- Ihave two questions that might be related. You began bysaying that you had two points for us. (Laughter.) JUSTICE KENNEDY: You said the first wasthat the court erred in saying that there was a -- aviolation had been alleged. GENERAL GARRE: And -- JUSTICE KENNEDY: And I wanted to reach thesecond, and I was wondering if the second would addressthis sub-question that I have. If we were to say thatTwombly is to be confined to the antitrust andcommercial context, would -- would that destroy yourcase? GENERAL GARRE: Well, let me answer boththose questions: First, the second point I wanted toadd is interrelated with the first, and that's that thecourt of appeals applied an overly expansive conceptionof the supervisory liabilities available under Bivens.And, I think, in order to evaluate the adequacy of thepleadings, this Court has to have in mind the standardsof supervisory liability that Bivens applied. And wethink the that court of appeals applied an overlyexpansive concept of that under Rizzo and other -- theother precedents we cite in our case. And second: No, our case would not go awayif this Court got rid of Bell Atlantic or if this Courtlimited Bell Atlantic to the antitrust context. Wedon't think the Court should do that. When the Courtdispensed -- disavowed the broad no-set-of-factslanguage from Conley v. Gibson, we took the Court to besaying: We are disavowing that for all cases under Rule ; we are not limiting it to parallel conduct in thesection of the Sherman Act context. So I think that Bell Atlantic's explicationof Rule and the disavowal of the no-set-of-factslanguage, which, after all, is the test under which thedistrict court had to resort to, to sustain the claimsin this case -- JUSTICE KENNEDY: I do have the samelingering doubts as Justice -- or concerns or questionsas Justice Breyer. It's hard for me to believe we hadto wait for Twombly in order to have this, and it seemsto me Rule is not applicable here because it simplyworks after the fact. GENERAL GARRE: Well, we don't think you hadto wait for Twombly to get rid of those claims. Wethink that many of those claims would dismiss. Theycertainly would have been dismissed in the section context under this Court's decision in Rizzo. And we could talk about what it would belike for claims against the president of Coca-Cola orFord Motor Company, but really we're here talking aboutclaims against the highest level officials of ourgovernment, who everyone agrees are entitled to thedoctrine of qualified immunity, a doctrine that wasdesigned, at the end of the day, to protect the effective functioning of our government. Theseofficials are entitled at least to the protections thatthis Court found appropriate for civil antitrustdefendants. JUSTICE GINSBURG: General Garre, there wasa reference, I think, in Judge Gleason's decision in theEastern District to the Office of the Inspector Generalreport on the detainees' treatment at the MetropolitanDetention Center. Is there nothing in those reportsthat lends some plausibility to Iqbal's claims? GENERAL GARRE: We don't think so,Justice Ginsburg. I mean, most fundamentally,extra-record materials, extra-complaint materials can'tmake up for the deficiencies in the complaint itself.Plaintiffs had the benefit of that -page report whenthey brought their action in this case. They haveamended their complaint twice already. And so, in thatrespect, they are in a much better position than thetypical plaintiffs. And, secondly, if you look at that report,if you want to go outside the record and look at thatreport, I would urge you to look at page of thereport, which says that "we found" -- and I am quotingfrom the report -- "we found that the informationprovided to high-level officials suggested this 'hold until cleared' policy was being applied to persons'suspected of being involved in the'" / attacks, aperfectly lawful law enforcement program. And it goeson to say that "in practice the policy may have beenapplied differently in the field. " And the other pages I would point you to arepages , , , and , which make clear that this --the alleged discriminatory acts were -- were taken on anad hoc basis. That's what the complaint in this casesays on page , where it says that FBI officials, farremoved from the Attorney General and the Director ofthe FBI, were making these determinations withoutcriteria, without a uniform classification system. And we think that to go back up the chain tosuggest that the Attorney General of the United Statesand Director of the FBI may be potentially subject tocivil liability, the burdens of civil litigation goesfar beyond Rule as it's described in Bell Atlantic,far beyond this Court's qualified immunity cases. JUSTICE STEVENS: Mr. Garre, can I ask you afactual question because I really don't know? In the --assume that -- that they had to go to trial on thiscase, which may not be the case. Would they be entitledto be defended by the Department of Justice or wouldthey have to get private counsel? GENERAL GARRE: They are being defended bythe Department of Justice, the -- the Attorney Generaland Director of the FBI. JUSTICE STEVENS: And that applies even ifthere would be a trial later on? GENERAL GARRE: Yes, and that's adiscretionary determination that has been made in thiscase. JUSTICE STEVENS: I see. JUSTICE GINSBURG: Is there otherlitigation, General Garre, pending with respect to thedetentions? GENERAL GARRE: Yes, there are other claims.There are also claims that have been made. And we citeone of these cases, the Twitty case, which we cite inour reply. This case involved a prisoner who claimedthat he was transferred one -- from one prison to thenext for a retaliatory motive. They included a claimagainst the Attorney General of the United States. Andthe district court said: Well, under the Iqbalclaim that -- under the Iqbal case, that case can goforward, and potentially the Attorney General can besubject to civil -- to civil discovery, which I thinkunderscores Judge Cabranes's point that the decision in this case is a blue point -- is a blueprint for civilplaintiffs who are challenging the implementation ofimportant law enforcement policies to subject theAttorney General, the Director of the FBI, or otherhigh-level officials to civil discovery based onconclusory and generally -- and general and inadequateallegations. If I could -- JUSTICE GINSBURG: Is there -- is there aTort Claims Act action pending or -- I don't know whereI got that impression -- arising out of thesedetentions? GENERAL GARRE: There are tort claims,Federal Tort Claims Acts, asserted in this case, andthere's other parallel litigation going on in the SecondCircuit, Justice Ginsburg. If I could reserve the remainder of my time. CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, General. GENERAL GARRE: Thank you. CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Mr. Reinert. ORAL ARGUMENT OF ALEXANDER A. REINERT ON BEHALF OF THE RESPONDENTS MR. REINERT: Mr. Chief Justice, and may itplease the Court: I think I should start with paragraph ofthe complaint because I think Petitioners' treatment of paragraph shows why they have no coherent theory ofwhat a conclusory allegation is and what it's not.Because what does paragraph do? It sets out apolicy, and it says that Petitioners approved thepolicy. Paragraph does exactly the same thing.Paragraph you can find at of the appendix;paragraph you can find at to . In both -- in both cases it does the samething. We have Petitioners approving a policy. Now,Petitioners here conceded at oral argument, contrary totheir reply brief but consistent with their openingbrief, that paragraph states a factual allegation.So if paragraph states a factual allegation that isentitled to be considered true, then paragraph statesa factual allegation that is entitled to be consideredto be true. This isn't -- this case is not about ad hocdecisions made at the low level of the Department ofJustice. This is about a policy approved with theknowledge of Petitioners that discriminated againstdetainees. JUSTICE ALITO: Well, General Garre saidthere's no question that there was a policy, and that itwas known by and approved by the Petitioners here, butthat the policy is different from the policy that you allege. MR. REINERT: Well, Justice -- JUSTICE ALITO: And that's the question. Where -- what do you think is the mostspecific allegation in your complaint as to thePetitioners' knowledge and approval of the -- of anillegal policy? MR. REINERT: Well, paragraph specifically alleges knowledge, and Rule (b) says youcan allege knowledge generally. So that -- we haveestablished knowledge of the policy. The policy isdescribed between paragraphs and of the complaint. JUSTICE ALITO: As to paragraphs and ,which did seem to be the most specific, are those basedon any specific information that you have concerningPetitioners, or are they based on inferences that youthink you can draw from your allegations about whathappened and the nature of the responsibilities of thePetitioners? MR. REINERT: They are based in -- they arebased in part on the Office of Inspector General'sreport about what happened after September th. Theyalso are based on other information that we gathered inadvance of filing the -- the complaint. But, YourHonors, what we think Petitioners are asking us to do here -- JUSTICE ALITO: I'm not sure that reallyanswered my question. Are they based on anythingspecific that you know about what the Petitioners did? MR. REINERT: Yes. We know that Petitionersordered a -- ordered to have certain groups targeted forquestioning, for detention. That's all in -- some ofthat's in the Office of the Inspector General's report;some of that is in public documents referred to by someof the amicus briefs. We think -- JUSTICE GINSBURG: Are you suggestingGeneral Garre's statement he just made to us -- he saidthere's nothing in the Office of the Inspector General'sreport that suggests that the Attorney General or thehead of the FBI were engaged in any wrongdoing? MR. REINERT: Oh, I don't think that'scorrect, Your Honor. I mean, the Office of theInspector General's report says that from the -- fromthe Department of the Attorney General -- from theAttorney General's Office, there was a direction to makethe conditions of confinement as harsh as possible. That was -- that was directed to the -- BOPDirector Sawyer. It said, we don't want them to be ableto get access to Johnny Cochran, for instance. Thatstatement was made. CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, that's alittle bit different -- if I could interrupt you -- thansaying, make the conditions of confinement as harsh aspossible. It's saying, make the conditions ofconfinement such that they will not be able tocommunicate with alleged -- alleged -- other prisonersthat -- that might be part of the same group connectedwith the activities on /. MR. REINERT: Well -- and certainly, YourHonor, we have also -- I mean, we have -- this case isat a funny posture, right, because we have all thisdiscovery that we have obtained since the complaint wasfiled which, we think, confirms the allegations in thiscomplaint. Now, we think Petitioners' position wouldrequire us to allege facts at the complaint stage thatwe could only obtain through discovery. But, YourHonors, some of -- JUSTICE SCALIA: Well, you -- you could havesaid the same thing about the existence of a conspiracyin -- in the antitrust case. I mean, that was theargument. How can we prove an agreement until we havediscovery? MR. REINERT: Well, the difference -- JUSTICE SCALIA: We say you need something more in order to go forward, something more than, youknow, you prevented these people from talking to JohnnyCochran. That's not going to do it. MR. REINERT: Well, but, Justice Scalia, thedifference between this case and Bell Atlantic isexactly what Justice Souter alluded to in his colloquywith General Garre, which is that in -- in Bell Atlanticthere were two possible -- there were two possibilities.A reviewing court was basically left in equipoise,looking at the complaint in Bell Atlantic. JUSTICE SCALIA: Well, there are twopossibilities here. Number one is the possibility thatthere was a general policy adopted by the high-levelofficials which was perfectly valid and that whateverdistortions you are complaining about was in theimplementation by lower level officials. That's onepossibility. The other possibility, which seems to memuch less plausible, is that the -- the high-levelofficials themselves directed these -- theseunconstitutional and unlawful acts. MR. REINERT: Well, Your Honor, we have twodifferent theories, right. One is knowledge of andapproval of, and the other is direction. But those -- both of those possibilities are unlawful possibilities. The question is who isresponsible? Now, Bell Atlantic doesn't -- doesn'tprohibit plaintiffs from pleading cases in thealternative. And if you are going to plead cases in thealternative, it's possible, of course, that some peoplewill ultimately be held responsible and some won't. Butthe -- CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Do you agree that --to follow up on Justice Breyer's questioning of GeneralGarre, do you believe that the same pleading standardsapply in the action against the president of Coca-Colaas apply to the actions of the Attorney General andDirector of the FBI on the evening of September ,? MR. REINERT: Certainly, Your Honor, I thinkthe same pleading standards apply. CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: I'm sorry?Certainly or certainly not? MR. REINERT: Certainly, Your Honor, I thinkthe same pleading standards apply. To the extentPetitioners seek protection, the protection is throughthe -- through the doctrine of qualified immunity. Andthey have that protection. JUSTICE BREYER: Well, why -- why isn't theprotection -- I have the number of the rule I want. Maybe I am not understanding it. But Rule (e)(),says -- says, among other things, that the judge canchange the number of depositions you get. He couldreduce them to zero if, for example, he decides theburden or the expense outweighs the likely benefit.Can't he do that whether you are the president of Coca-Cola or whether you are the president of Ford or whetheryou are the President, or you are the Attorney General? MR. REINERT: Well, certainly -- JUSTICE BREYER: Can he do that or not? MR. REINERT: No -- Justice Breyer, yes, adistrict court judge can do that. JUSTICE BREYER: Yes, he can. MR. REINERT: In fact, the Second Circuitdirected the district court to do that here. I mean,Petitioners argue as if discovery is impending againstthem. In fact, the Second Circuit's opinion quiteclearly says, you don't get discovery againstPetitioners unless you get discovery from lower levelofficials that confirm the need to have discovery fromPetitioners. JUSTICE SCALIA: Well, I mean, that'slovely, that -- that the -- the ability of the AttorneyGeneral and Director of the FBI to -- to do their jobswithout having to litigate personal liability is dependent upon the discretionary decision of a singledistrict judge. I mean, I thought that the protectionof qualified immunity gave them -- gave them more thanthat. MR. REINERT: Your -- Your Honor, it givesthem quite a bit, Justice Scalia, and they got -- JUSTICE SCALIA: It doesn't give them much,if that's all it gives them. MR. REINERT: Well, Justice Scalia, in thiscase what they were permitted to argue was that the lawwas not clearly established. They argued that; theylost that. They were permitted to argue that they were-- they acted objectively reasonably. They argued that;they lost that. They didn't petition for cert on eitherof those questions. So they have been given theprotections afforded by qualified immunity. What theydon't get because of qualified immunity is extraprotections not described in the rules, not approved byCongress, not referred to by this Court in any -- in anyway. CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: So the pleadingstandard -- let's leave the president of Coca-Cola outof it. The local manager of the Coca-Cola distributioncenter, you can state that the same rigor required inthe complaint that applies to him also applies to the Attorney General and the Director of the FBI in the wakeof /? MR. REINERT: Your Honor --Mr. Chief Justice, the pleading standard isn'tdifferent. The substantive standard of liability may bedifferent, and that's certainly true. I mean, one hasto allege much more to allege a claim on -- CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: But your -- yourresponse then focuses solely on the merits of theunderlying claim, not any requirement of -- ofheightened pleading. MR. REINERT: That's correct, Your Honor,and we think that this Court has rejected heightenedpleading at every instance. I mean, even in BellAtlantic, this Court rejected heightened pleading, andthis Court has rejected heightened pleading even in -- CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well I thought --and others may know better in connection to BellAtlantic, but I thought in Bell Atlantic what we said isthat there's a standard, but it's an affected by thecontext in which the allegations are made. That was acontext of a particular type of antitrust violation andthat affected how we would look at the complaint. Andhere, I think you at least accept, don't you -- or Iunderstood from your answers to the question on Coca Cola that maybe you don't -- that because we're lookingat litigation involving the Attorney General and theDirector of FBI in connection with their nationalsecurity responsibilities, that there ought to begreater rigor applied to our examination of thecomplaint. MR. REINERT: Well, Mr. Chief Justice,there's no reference to that in the rules. We thinkqualified immunity provides the protection thatPetitioners are seeking. And we think what the SecondCircuit did was balance a very difficult -- difficultprinciples on both sides. CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Do you -- do youdisagree with the notion that Bell Atlantic at leastestablished that the level of pleading required dependson the context of the claim -- the context of theparticular case? MR. REINERT: I don't -- I don't understandBell Atlantic to argue that the level of pleadingrequires -- depends on the context of the case, but thatthe substantive liability that is in the background ofthe case affects what you have to plead. And whatPetitioners are asking is to take the substantivebackground of an affirmative defense and make thataffect the ability -- what you have to plead, not -- JUSTICE SCALIA: But they pleaded aconspiracy -- they pleaded a conspiracy in BellAtlantic. It wasn't a matter of not -- not settingforth in the complaint the substance of what producedliability. They pleaded conspiracy. MR. REINERT: Well, what this Court --Justice Scalia, what this Court said in Bell Atlantic,to the extent it disregarded the allegation aboutagreement -- it said the problem with the agreement wasthat it didn't allege what, it didn't allege who, itdidn't allege when. And I don't think it can be saidabout this complaint. This alleges who, this allegeswhat it was, this alleges -- JUSTICE SCALIA: When? MR. REINERT: -- when it occurred -- JUSTICE SCALIA: Does it say when? Does itsay what basis? MR. REINERT: In the weeks after Septemberth. JUSTICE SCALIA: I don't know on what basisany of these allegations against the high-levelofficials are made. MR. REINERT: Justice Scalia, they are madeon the basis of the information that we garnered fromthe Office of Inspector General's report. What we know -- what we know about -- JUSTICE SCALIA: Well, we'll -- we'll checkthat. JUSTICE SOUTER: Mr. Reinert -- JUSTICE SCALIA: The Solicitor Generalcontests that. JUSTICE SOUTER: I want to throw you aquestion. I'm not sure it's a softball question. Youcan -- (Laughter.) JUSTICE SOUTER: You can let me know. I -- I'm starting with the assumption, whichI think is -- is in Bell Atlantic, that what we areconcerned with in context is that the -- the contexttells us how specific you've got to be versus howconclusory you've got to be, and the reason it does sois that some allegations are -- are more likely to betrue than others depending on the context. Is it fair to say -- going back to JusticeBreyer's question, is it fair to say that your basicpleading here rests on the following assumption: Thatit is more plausible that the Attorney General of theUnited States and the Director of the FBI were in factdirectly involved in devising a policy with the racialcharacteristics and the coercive characteristics that you claim, than that the President of Coca Cola wasputting mouses in bottles? MR. REINERT: Well, I think that -- I thinkthat is our -- our contention, Your Honor, because it'sa -- it's an allegation about a policy. JUSTICE SOUTER: So you would say, if -- tothe Coke question you would say, yes, they've got to getmore facts there, this is just -- this is just crazy tothink that the president is putting mice in the bottles. But you're saying that, so far as the closeinvolvement of the Attorney General and the FBIdirector, it's not crazy to assume what you -- what yousay, and, therefore, you don't have to get into moredetail in order to have an adequate claim here. Isthat -- MR. REINERT: We certainly don't think it'sabsurd or bizarre, which is the argument that thePetitioners raised below -- CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: But that's also notthe -- MR. REINERT: I'm sorry. CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Absurd and bizarreis also not the pleading standard, and how are we -- tofollow up on Justice Souter's question -- how are wesupposed to judge whether we think it's more unlikely that the president of Coca-Cola would take certainactions as opposed to the Attorney General of the UnitedStates? MR. REINERT: I think it is a problem posedby that interpretation of Bell Atlantic. I don't thinkit's a problem that's posed by this particular case, Mr.Chief Justice. I think -- JUSTICE STEVENS: Of course, the problemwith the president of the Coca-Cola is the allegationprobably would be that the Coca-Cola Company has adoptedsloppy procedures in its manufacturing lines, and thepresident is responsible for those procedures, andthat's why the bottles are filled with rats. MR. REINERT: Well -- JUSTICE STEVENS: That's the way you wouldallege it. You wouldn't say he did it personally. MR. REINERT: Well, Justice Stevens -- JUSTICE STEVENS: And then you would have asimilar question. MR. REINERT: You probably wouldn't say hedid it personally, and there might be a respondeatsuperior theory there, for liability, that we don't haveaccess to in the Bivens arena, which we concede; we haveto establish a link between the unconstitutional conductand -- and the actions of the Petitioners. So that may be how it's pleaded, and that might get it closer ifthere were -- certainly if there were a policy ofputting mice in Coke bottles, that would certainly getit closer. JUSTICE STEVENS: No, this is a policy ofbeing derelict in the sanitary conditions in the plantand so forth and so on; therefore, mice -- mice aregetting into bottles with undue frequency, and thepresident is responsible for that. I don't see thatthat's a fanciful allegation. MR. REINERT: It -- I -- I don't know thatit is fanciful, Justice Stevens. I think -- JUSTICE STEVENS: I'm not suggesting thatCoca-Cola really does that. Of course not, but -- MR. REINERT: No, certainly not. (Laughter.) JUSTICE STEVENS: But the standard theory isthat -- MR. REINERT: I think -- I mean, theessential point in this case is that the Second Circuitwas faced with a dilemma. I mean, there's a liberalpleading standard and there's qualified immunity. Andthe Second Circuit tried to resolve it, did I think avery good job of resolving it with the interests -- allof the interests that Petitioners are concerned about. They were -- JUSTICE ALITO: Well, they weren't "all"completely -- they were not -- CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: I was just going tosay the -- the difficulty with wrestling with the casethrough the perspective of the hypothetical of the micein the bottles is that it's -- it's by its natureparticularly absurd, but what if the allegation is thatthe president of Coca Cola is individually involved in aparticular price-fixing scheme? Then does this caseseem so terribly different from the level of specificityBell Atlantic would require? MR. REINERT: Well, I guess I want todistinguish that allegation from the allegations here.We are not alleging that the Petitioners individuallyidentified particular detainees as of interest or as ofhigh interest. We are alleging that they either createdthe policy or they knew of and approved of it. Now -- now, we could talk about "knew of andapproved." As I said, under Rule (b), "knew of" isestablished by a saying that they knew it; we can't read(b) any other way, and Petitioners don't suggest thatwe do. So then we have "approved." Now, if theyknew it, right, if we accept that they knew about this policy, and we also accept paragraph as Petitionersconcede we must accept it to be true, then we know thatthey knew that there was this policy occurring and theyapproved the policy of not releasing them -- CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: But that's easy. Ihope that the Attorney General and the Director of FBI-- of the FBI knew of and approved whatever the policywas. What you have to show is some facts, or at leastwhat you have to allege are some facts, showing thatthey knew of a policy that was discriminatory -- MR. REINERT: Yes. CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: -- based onethnicity and country of origin. MR. REINERT: And I think I was -- I wastrying to get there, Mr. Chief Justice, and the way Iwould say it is this: We've alleged that they knew, inparagraph , that the policy was discriminatory.That's clearly alleged in paragraph . We've alsoalleged that they approved the policy. The link -- to the extent that approval isnot sufficient for this Court, the link between approvalin and an allegation is paragraph , because if theyknew that these individuals were being detained inrestrictive conditions of confinement because of theirrace, religion, and national origin, as we alleged in , and they also approved that they should not bereleased until cleared, then they are approving thembeing held in restrictive conditions of confinementbased upon race, religion, and national origin. JUSTICE BREYER: No, but they didn't -- thatisn't what says. What says, which I think isimportant, is it says that they knew of and agreed tosubject the plaintiffs to these harsh conditions solelyon account of their religion, race, and national origin,and for no legitimate penological interest. Because, ifthey are looking for suspects from /, given thepeople they found, it's not surprising that they mightlook for people who looked like Arabs. All right? Thatisn't surprising to me, because that was what thesuspects looked like. So, they want to say, yes, that was part ofit, but it's not for no legitimate penological interest;it was for every good reason: We didn't want more bombsto go off. Now, suppose that's their view. Supposealso -- I'm just hypothetically -- they never, and theyknow this, ever had a conversation where they said, golook for people of Arabic descent alone. They neversaid that. They said, look for those people who haveother connections and had something we reasonably believe is /-connected; they might be dangerous.Suppose that's what they thought. So they read this,and they think, Judge, I want to tell Judge that youhave no evidence to show anything other than what I justsaid, which sounds as if it might be reasonablyconnected to the / investigation. What is open toour two defendants, if you win this case? If they'reright, how do they prevent lots of depositions fromcoming in and taking their time? How do they preventthis case dragging on and taking their time? If thefacts are what I just said, rather than what you think? MR. REINERT: Well, Justice Breyer, if thoseare the facts, then those are facts that have to beestablished through discovery. They cannot beestablished at the pleading stage. I would think wecould all agree on that. And that's their -- and theycan do that through discovery. Now, at the pleading stage, if they don'twant to file an answer and deny the facts, they can moveto dismiss on qualified-immunity grounds as they have. JUSTICE BREYER: They'll -- they'll deny thefacts; then you'll say there's a factual matter. Andsuppose hypothetically -- not what you think -- but youhave no reason at all hypothetically, imagine, forbelieving that they did this solely for racial reasons unrelated to the investigation of /. Suppose youdon't have any information that shows that, and they aregoing to say everything else is covered by qualifiedimmunity, and you have nothing else. Then what do theydo to get out of years of discovery? MR. REINERT: Well, the Second Circuit givesa clear path for defendants in that situation,Justice Breyer, and the answer is, if you want to make aRule (e) motion, make it; it was referred to inCrawford-El. But, more importantly, we don't getdiscovery of them. We don't get to drag them throughdiscovery unless -- JUSTICE STEVENS: May I just interrupt?There are a whole bunch of other defendants in thiscase. As I understand it, they're still in the case. MR. REINERT: That's correct. JUSTICE STEVENS: So you do have discoveryof maybe to officials who would have a lot ofinformation about this case. It seems to me it'sentirely possible that you could either postponediscovery and dismiss the two principal defendants fornow and then bring them in later, if the facts youdevelop from the other discovery would prove what youhave alleged. MR. REINERT: Well, as to postponing discovery, that's exactly what the Second Circuitdirected the district court to do. So that's been done,Your Honor. As to dismissing them and re-filing later,the problem with that is there could be a statute oflimitations problem, and that -- so that's just not asolution. I mean, that's -- that was a solution thatmight result ultimately in absolute immunity in thesekinds of cases. JUSTICE GINSBURG: What is the statute oflimitations that would apply? MR. REINERT: It's years here, Your Honor.And so we've -- we've obtained discovery. Now, if ithad been -- if this -- JUSTICE GINSBURG: You have -- you have nothad discovery from the Attorney General or -- MR. REINERT: Certainly not. JUSTICE GINSBURG: So -- MR. REINERT: Certainly not. JUSTICE GINSBURG: So it's -- it's as thoughdiscovery with respect to those two defendants wasstayed pending your discovery from the lower leveldefendants? MR. REINERT: In fact, it has been formallystayed, Justice Ginsburg -- JUSTICE GINSBURG: Has it? MR. REINERT: And the Second Circuit'sdecision confirms that. I mean, the -- JUSTICE ALITO: Well, that may be whathappened here, but if -- if the Second Circuit isaffirmed, there may be other suits that are like this.And what is the protection of the high-level officialwith qualified immunity with respect to discovery if the-- the official cannot get dismissal under qualifiedimmunity at the (b)() stage? How many districtjudges are there in the country? Over ? One of thedistrict judges has a very aggressive idea about whatthe discovery should be. What's the protection there? MR. REINERT: Well, if this Court -- JUSTICE ALITO: It's a discretionarydecision, interlocutory discretionary decision by thetrial judge. MR. REINERT: Well, if -- Justice Alito, ifthis Court in affirming the Second Circuit outlines andsays the Second Circuit took the proper steps -- this iswhat the district court should do -- then if anydistrict court disregards that, then there could be apetition for mandamus. And that's -- and I think courtsof appeals would respect this Court's opinion if thisCourt said, look, here's the dilemma, here's the best way to resolve it. I do want to make a point about the -- I dowant to make one jurisdictional point, Your Honor --Your Honors, and that is, if Petitioners had raisedthese arguments in the context of a motion to dismissfor failure to state a claim, and they had lost, wewouldn't be here today, right? There would be nojurisdiction. And Johnson v. Jones, I think, makesclear that you can't bootstrap jurisdiction by referringto qualified immunity. And, in fact, if you look at Petitioners'Notice of Motion to Dismiss, point is dismiss forqualified immunity; point is dismiss because it doesnot sufficiently allege personal involvement. That is,in their notice of motion itself, they separated outthese two issues. Now, in their briefing at all the lowercourts and in this Court, they've elided them. But ourposition on -- on jurisdiction is that there is no --there is no appellate jurisdiction to -- to deal withthis question, and in fact Petitioners' own motionsuggests that these two issues are separable and thatthe only issue here is whether or not clearlyestablished law applied and the objective reasonablenessof Petitioners' conduct. And that, we think, is another way of resolving the case. JUSTICE SOUTER: May I ask you thisquestion? And -- and I ask it, you know, mindful ofwhat you've just said, but I -- I'm not sure that thetwo issues can be kept as -- as separated as yousuggest. Another avenue to responding to the problem,I think, that Justice Breyer's last hypo raised would beas follows -- and then I'll tell you the difficulty thatI have with it, and I was going ask you to comment onthe difficulty. He said that the -- the allegation -- oneway to read the allegation, and I think a fair way, isto say that the Attorney General and the Director of theFBI devised a policy and condoned the implementation ofa policy that was based on racial and religious groundswith no penological purpose. Well, under thecircumstances of immediate post-/, it is notsurprising necessarily that they -- they devised apolicy that had reference to religion and nationalorigin and so on, given what we knew about thehijackers. What is not so easy to accept, as a matterof adequate pleading, is the claim that there was nopenological interest involved in the decision of how to and how long to hold the individuals who were pickedup. One answer to that, which I think is -- isin your pleadings, is that you refer to specificindividuals and in particular to your own client, whowas in the position of being held under these conditionsfor a considerable period of time, and it turns outthere's -- there's no indication that there wasultimately a justified penological interest. So that might be your answer toJustice Breyer's question. There's enough in here aboutspecific detentions to make it plausible for pleadingstandards that they were being held without anypenological interest. The difficulty I have with that line ofthinking is this: You also allege in there that lowerlevel officials were making decisions on an ad hoc basiswithout adequate criteria as to -- as to how they shouldmake them. And that particular line of allegationssuggests that what was really going on here, includingwhat was happening to your client, wasn't the result of-- of clear policy decisions made by the AttorneyGeneral and the Director of the FBI, but they -- theywere just being scattered. So, what in the context ofyour whole pleading makes it adequate simply to charge on a conclusory basis that these two defendants weredevising a policy that had -- that was intended to havean effect of no penological interest? MR. REINERT: Well, Your Honor,Justice Souter, I do think that in this way the OIGreport is very instructive. It basically confirms thatnone of the folks who were held as of interest or ashigh interest were ever charged or suspected of beinginvolved in terrorism. That was well over people.As for paragraph -- JUSTICE SOUTER: Did -- you'll have to helpme out. Did you allege that? MR. REINERT: We alleged that many -- likemany -- plaintiffs, like many detainees, were held forno reason. JUSTICE SOUTER: Okay. That's what you'resaying -- MR. REINERT: That's what we alleged. And in paragraph , I just want to say thatdoes not support the view that there was no racialcriteria here. What it -- paragraph is immediatelyfollowed by paragraph , which says the classificationswere made because of race. Paragraph is saying thedistinction between "of interest" and "of high interest"was totally arbitrary. But that's just a way of saying that this was a racial classification policy. It was aracial classification policy that resulted in harshconditions of confinement for our client and for manyindividuals. And now we have alleged Petitioners'connection to that. You know, we could say -- JUSTICE SOUTER: Are you -- are you sayingthat the -- that the claim that there was no penologicalinterest for certain decisions goes simply to thedistinction between the decision whether to classify as"of interest" versus as "of high interest"? MR. REINERT: No, Your Honor, I thinkit's -- I think it's very difficult for us to say in acomplaint anything other than no -- no legitimatepenological interest, because we couldn't go through thecomplaint proving all the negatives. The fact is ourclient posed no threat that connected to /. Wealleged that. We alleged that's true of multipledetainees, and we think that's sufficient to say thatthere was no penological interest. Now, Petitioner -- JUSTICE SCALIA: Is -- is no penologicalinterest enough? MR. REINERT: Oh -- JUSTICE SCALIA: I mean, is that the onlybasis -- after an attack on the country of the magnitudeof /, is that the only basis on which people could be held? Namely that these people are the -- are theguilty culprits, and we are going to put them in jail? MR. REINERT: Well -- JUSTICE SCALIA: Surely for at least aperiod, you can hold people just -- just to investigate? MR. REINERT: Well, Justice Scalia, I don'tthink for a period it's constitutional to hold themsolely based on their race, religion, and nationalorigin. And if it is -- JUSTICE SCALIA: Well, it wasn't solely onthat. MR. REINERT: Well, that is the allegation.If it is, that's an issue to be dealt on the merits,exactly as this Court did in Johnson v. California. JUSTICE SCALIA: But the net was surely notcast wide enough if anybody with that race, religion was-- was swept in. MR. REINERT: Well -- JUSTICE SCALIA: I mean, if it's solely forthat reason, there would have been hundreds of thousandsof others. MR. REINERT: Justice Scalia, that is theallegation in the complaint, that as individuals wereencountered -- JUSTICE SCALIA: -- implausible. MR. REINERT: We respectfully disagree with-- about that, Justice Scalia. But I would saythat with -- JUSTICE GINSBURG: Wasn't it limited topeople who were already indicted on other charges? MR. REINERT: These were people -- JUSTICE GINSBURG: We're not dealing withthe universe of men who are of a certain nationalorigin; we are dealing with only ones who wereincarcerated for an offense that has nothing to do withterrorism. MR. REINERT: Justice Ginsburg, these wereindividuals who were swept up either in the immigrationdetention system or in the justice criminal detentionsystem, and that's where the classification was made.But -- but I -- I do -- CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: I'm sorry -- sweptup? You mean they were in -- in prison because they hadviolated immigration and other laws, right? MR. REINERT: That's correct,Mr. Chief Justice, that's correct. We don't disputethat. But I think this Court's decision in Johnsonv. California and in Parents Involved is instructive,because there the Court says, look, if there is a racial classification, it has to be judged under strictscrutiny. And even in Johnson v. California, where theCourt said the State's power was at its apex, which isin the context of their prisons, and even where there isan argument that we have gang violence -- we know thatracial identity goes to gang violence to some extent --still the State was put to its burden of proof of acompelling State interest, and even though that was acase that involved damages, it was a qualified immunitycase. And Johnson v. California is in manyrespects no different from this case. Yes, the /context makes a difference, and Petitioners were able torely -- I'm sorry, Your Honor. CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: You can finish. MR. REINERT: The Petitioners were allowedto rely on the / context in making their argumentabout qualified immunity, about the objectivereasonableness of their conduct, and about whether thelaw was clearly established. But that does not mean --thank you, Your Honor. CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, counsel. Mr. Garre, you have minutes remaining. REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF GEN. GREGORY G. GARRE ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONERS GENERAL GARRE: Thank you, Mr. ChiefJustice. And, first, let me clarify the record ondiscoveries. The Second Circuit didn't hold thatdiscovery could not go forward against thesePetitioners. It held that the district court might --that's the word it used on page a of the petitionappendix -- postpone or limit discovery. So -- JUSTICE GINSBURG: But it -- it did happen?At least it did -- GENERAL GARRE: To the grace of the districtcourt, that's right, and I think Judge Cabranesemphasized the -- the concerns of potentially vexatiousdiscovery in this context, and we certainlywholeheartedly agree with that. Second, I think Mr. Reinert made animportant concession when he acknowledged thatsubstantive standards of law affect what you have toplead. And here there are two substantive standards --two substantive issues that are key. One is the standard for supervisoryliability under Bivens, which requires that theplaintiff show an affirmative link between thewrongdoing alleged by lower level officials and thepotential wrongdoing on the part of higher level officials like the Attorney General. The complaint inthis case has no subsidiary facts on which a reasonableperson could affirm that kind of affirmative link. And, second, the -- the Attorney General ismuch different than the president of Coca-Cola in thathe is entitled to a presumption of regularity of hisactions. So that -- that standard itself ought toaffect how one views the complaint. JUSTICE STEVENS: Mr. Garre, I just wantedto -- would you say that the -- the Attorney Generalmight be subject to taking a deposition, even if he'snot a defendant? GENERAL GARRE: Certainly we would -- wewould oppose that. It's conceivable they could try toget that discovery. JUSTICE STEVENS: Is there any -- somestandard rule of law that government officials don'thave to testify at proceedings? GENERAL GARRE: I don't know that there isthat standard, Your Honor. The same concerns -- JUSTICE STEVENS: I certainly didn't thinkthere was when I wrote Clinton v. Jones. (Laughter.) GENERAL GARRE: Fair enough, Your Honor. But certainly, you know, when we think they are parties to the case the potential demands of civildiscovery and the burdens of civil litigation are muchgreater. Third -- JUSTICE BREYER: And the reason you can'tmake this argument under (b)()(C) is? GENERAL GARRE: Well, we are in the realm ofdiscovery, and we are in the realm of relying on thedistrict court -- JUSTICE BREYER: The judge there is supposedto weigh burdens versus desirability of going forward.And so why don't you make this argument right at thatpoint? If you are right you win; if not, you lose. GENERAL GARRE: For the reason this Courtgave in Bell Atlantic: We don't rely on district courtjudges to weed out potentially meritless claims throughdiscovery. We apply faithfully the pleading standards. JUSTICE SCALIA: If you are right, you winassuming you get a district judge who is also right. GENERAL GARRE: Right. JUSTICE BREYER: And that's also true, Iguess, of complaints, and every other legal question. GENERAL GARRE: We think that Bell Atlanticanswers that question correctly, Your Honor. Third, context does matter. The ChiefJustice is right about that. In evaluating the claim, you have to look at the context in which it arises.Here the fact it arises in the qualified immunitycontext with respect to high-level officials is veryimportant. The higher up the chain of command you go,the less plausible it is that the high-level officiallike the Attorney General is going to be aware of andknow about the sort of microscopic decisions here:mistreatment in the Federal detention facility inBrooklyn, alleged discriminatory applications made byFBI agents in the field. These are not matters that one wouldplausibly assume the Attorney General of the UnitedStates has time out of his busy day to concern himselfwith. The Second Circuit decision should be reversed. CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, GeneralGarre -- GENERAL GARRE: Thank you. CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: -- Mr. Reinert. The case is submitted. (Whereupon, at : a.m., the case in theabove-entitled matter was submitted.) Aability ::able : :: :above-entitled: :absolute :Absolutely :absurd ::, :accept :: :,:accepted :access ::account :acknowledged:Act :,: : :acted :action :,: :: :actions :: :,:activities :acts : :: :: :ad : :: :add :address :adequacy :adequate :: :: ::,adequately :: :administrations:adopted ::advance :affect :: :affidavit :affirm :affirmative ::, :: :: :affirmed :affirming :afforded :afoul :aftermath :Agency :agents :: :aggressive :ago :agree :: :: ::agreed :agreement:, ::,agrees :AL :,ALEXANDER: : :Alito : :: :: :,:allegation :: :,:, :: : :: :,: :,:,allegations :,:,, ::, :,: :: :,: :: :: :: :allege :,: :,:,,: :: ::alleged : :: ::, ::, ::,,: :,:,,: :allegedly ::alleges : ::,,alleging ::,allowed :allows :alluded :alternative :amended :Amendment:::amicus :analyzed :answer :,: :: :: :: :,answered :answers ::antitrust ::, :: :anybody :apex :apparently:appeals :: : :: :APPEARAN...:appellate :appendix :,: :applicable :applications:applied :,: :,: :applies ::,apply ::,,,: :appropriate ::approval :: :,approved :: :,,: :,: :,: :approving ::Arab :Arabic :Arabs :arbitrary :arena :argue ::, :argued :,arguing :argument ::, :,:, :: :: ::,,:,arguments :arises :,arising :Ashcroft : ::asking :: :asserted ::assume :: :assuming :assumption:,Atlantic ::,, ::, ::, ::,,: ::, :: ::,, ::,,:, :: :: ::,Atlantic's :attack :attacks ::, :attorney ::,,: :,: :, :: ::,,: :: ::, ::, ::,,: :, : :: :: :: :: :,: :,avail :available :avenue :aware :a.m : ::Bback :: :background:,balance :based : ::,,,: :: :: :basic :basically :::basis : ::,,: :: :,: :: :,bear :began :behalf :,:,, :: :believe :: :believing :Bell : :,: :,: ::, ::,,: ::, :: :: :,: ::,,:, :: :: ::,benefit ::best :bet :better :: :beyond :,:,big :bit : :Bivens : ::,,: :: :,: :bizarre :: :,blue :blueprint :Bock :bombs :bootstrap :BOP :bottle ::bottles : :: ::, :Breyer ::,,,,: :: :,: :,: ::,,: :,: :,,Breyer's :: :: :: :brief ::,briefing :briefs :bring : :broad :Brooklyn :brought :bunch ::burden ::burdens ::, :: :,Bureau :busy ::,,,: :CC : :Cabranes :Cabranes's:California :: :,called :care :carries :case :,,: : ::, :: :,: :,:, ::, :,: :,: :: :,: :,:,,:, ::, :: :,: :: :,:, ::, ::,,: ::,cases :: ::, :: :: :,:cast :cause :,,center ::centered :cert :certain :: :: : ::certainly :: :: :: :: :,:, :: ::,,:, ::,,chain : :challenging :change :character :characteristics: :,charge : :: :charged :charges ::check :Chief :,: : :: :,:, ::, ::, ::,, :: :,: : ::, :: :,: ::,choice :,:,Circuit :: :: ::, :: :,: ::Circuit's ::circumstances: :cite : ::City :,civil : :: :,:, :: :,:, :: :,claim : :: :,:, :: :,: ::, :: :,: :,: :: :claimed :claims : : : :: ::,,,: ::, ::, :clarify : :classification: ::, ::classifications: :classify :clear : :: :cleared : :: : :: : ::clearly : :: :: ::client : :: :,Clinton :close :closer :,clueless :Coca : :: :Coca-Cola:,,: :: :: :,:,,: :Cochran ::coercive :coherent :Coke : ::Cola : :: :colloquy :come :comes ::coming : :command :comment :commercial::::common ::, :communicateCompany :compelling :complaining ::complaint ::, ::, : ::, :,: :, ::, :: :,: :,: :: :: :,:, ::,complaints:completely :concede ::conceded :conceivable: :concept :conceptionconceptually::concerning::concerns :: ::concession::conclusory :: ::conditions ::, :: :,: :condoned :: : :conduct :: :: :: :confined :confinement: :,: ::confirm :confirms :: :Congress :Conley :connected :: :connection :: : ::connectionsconsiderable::considered: ::,conspiracy: :: :,,constitutional:contention :contests :context :: ::, :: :,:,,:,,: ::,,: ::,contexts :contrary :control :,conversation::copied :correct :: :: :,correctly :counsel ::countless :countries :country :: ::course : :: ::court :,:,,: :,: ::, :: :: :,: :,: :,:,,,:, :: :: ::, ::,,:, :: :,:,,: :: ::, ::,courts : :: :: :Court's :: :: ::covered :Crawford-El: :crazy :,created :criminal :criteria :,: ::criterion :culprits :DD : :damages ::dangerous :day : :deal : :::dealing :,dealt :decades :December :decides :concerned ::Commissionerconcluding :concern :consistent : decision :: :: :: :: :,: :: ::decisions :: ::, ::defendant :defendants :: : :: : ::,,:, :defended ::defense :,: : ::deficiencies:definite :,: :demands :::demonstrateddenial :deny :,denying ::Department: :: :: :dependent :depending:::deposition :depositions: :: ::deprived :derelict :derivative :descent :describe :described :: :: ::designed :designing ::desirability:destroy :detail :detained :detainees :: :: :detention :: :,:detentions :: :determination: :determinations:,,,:determine :determined ::develop :developing:devised ::,devising :difference ::, :: :different :depends :::, :: :: :,: ::differently :difficult :: :difficulty ::, :dilemma ::direct :directed :: ::direction ::directly : :: :director :,: :,: :, :: :: :: ::, :: :: :: :: :: ::disagree ::disavowal :disavoweddisavowing::discoveries :discovery :: : ::,,,: :,: :: ::,,:,,,:, ::,,,: :,:,,:, :,: ::,,discretely :discretionary: ::,discriminated:discriminatory: :, :: :,:dismiss :,: :: ::,,,dismissal :: :dismissed ::dismissing :dispensed :dispute ::disputed :disregarded:disregards:distinction: ::distinguish ::distortionsdistribution::district :: :: : :: :,: ::,,,:, ::,divisions :doctrine :: :documents :doing :doubt :doubts :drag :dragging :draw :drew :Drug :due :,D.C :,EE : :,easier :Eastern :easy : :economic :effect : :effective :either :: :,: :: :either-or :element :elementary:elements :elided :emphasizedencountered::enforcement: :: :: existence :fanciful :enforcing :engaged :entirely ::entitled :: :: ::, :entitlement:,,:equipoise :erred :,:erroneously::,ESQ :, :essential :: ::establish :: ::established :: : :: :: :,: :establishing:ET :,ethnicity :evaluate :evaluating :::evening :evidence :exactly :: : ::examination:example :excerpts :exercised :::expansive :expense :experience:, :explication :extent :: ::extra :extraordinarily:extraordinary: :extra-complaintextra-record::Fface : :faced :facility :fact : ::, :: :,: :facts :: ::, ::,,,: :factual :: ::,,:factually :: :fails : ::failure :fair : :,: :faith :faithfully ::far : ::, :FBI :,: : ::, :,,:, ::, :: :: :,:,,: :: :: :: :: :,: ::Federal :: :: :field : :: ::Fifth :file :,filed : :::filing :filled :find : ::,finds :,finish :first :, :: :,:focuses :folks :follow ::followed :following :follows :Ford : :Form :formally ::former : :: : :forth : :fortiori :forward :: ::found :,: :foundation :frankly :frequency :frivolous :functioning :fundamental: :fundamentally: ::funny :GG : :, :: :gang :,garnered :Garre : :,:,, :,: : :: :, :: :,:, :,:,,:,,,:, :: :,:, ::,,,:, :,: :,: :,:, :: :: ::, :: :,:, ::,,:,Garre's :gateway :gathered :GEN : :,: :general :,:,,,,:,, ::, :,,:,, :,:, :,: :,:, ::,,,,:,, ::,,:,,,:, :: :,: :,: :,: :,: :,: :,:,,,,:, ::,,,: :,: :,:, :: :: :,: :: :: ::, :,:,,,:,,,:,,,generally ::generals : government's:General's ::,,,:getting ::Gibson :Ginsburg :,: :: :,: ::, ::, ::,,,: ::,, :give : :given :: :gives :, :Gleason's :go : ::, :: :: ::, :: :,: ::goes :, ::, ::going : :: ::,,: :: :: :: :: :: :good : :: :: :gotten :govern :government: : :: :: :: ::governs :grace :grant :granular :greater ::GREGORY: :, ::ground ::grounds ::group :groups :guess ::guilty :Hhappen :happened :: :happening:harassed :hard :harsh :: : :Hartman :hauled :head :hear : :heightened: ::,,,held : :: :: :,:, ::help :high : ::, :higher :higher-level:highest :high-level :: :,: ::,high-ranking:, ::hijackers ::hoc : :: :hold : :: ::, :holding :,: : :Honor :: ::, ::, ::, :: ::, :: :Honors :: :hope :hundreds :hypo :hypothetical:imagine ::immediate:immediately:immigration:,immunity ::,,,:,,:, :: ::,,: :: : :: :,:, :impending:implausible:, :implementation: ::implemented:important :: :: :,: :: ::importantly: :impose :impression:hypothetically: :,inadequate :incarceratedIidea :identified :identity :ignore :illegal :included :::includes :including :inconvenience:indication :indicted :individual :individually:,individuals :: :,: ::inferences :information: :,: :,innocent :Inspector :: :,: :instance :instructive :::intended :interest : :: :,:, ::, :,:,,:,,,:, :interests :interlocutory::interpretation: : :interpreted :: :interrelated: :interrupt :: :investigate :investigation: : :: ::involved : : :: :: :: :: :involvement :: ::involving :Iqbal : ::,Iqbal's :issue :: :issues :,: :i.e :Jjail :JAVAID :job : ::jobs :JOHN :Johnny ::Johnson :: ::,joint :Jones : :: :judge :,: ::, :: :,: :: :,: ::, :: :,judged ::judges ::, :judgment ::jurisdiction:,,,jurisdictional:justice : :: :,,: :,: : :,: ::, :: ::,,,,: :,:, ::,,,:, ::,,,:,,,:,,,: :,:, ::,, :: :,:,,,:,,,: :,:,, :: :,: :,: :,:, ::,,:,,,:,, :: :,:,,,:,,,,: :,:, ::,,,:,,,:, :,: ::, ::, ::,,,:,,,:, ::,,:,,:,,,:,,:,,,,:, :: :,:,,:,,,: :,justified :KKENNEDY:, ::kept :key :kind : :: :kinds :knew : ::,,,:, ::,,,: :know : ::,,,:, :: ::, :: :,:, :: :: : ::, :knowledge: :,:, :known :Llanguage :: :Laughter :: :: ::law : :: :: :: :: :: :lawful :: ::laws : :lawyer :,:,leave :left :legal :legitimate :: :lends :let's :level : ::, :: :: :: :: :: :,: :: :,liabilities :liability ::, ::,, :: :: :: ::liberal :limit :limitations :limited :::limiting :line :,lines :lingering :link :,: :: :,: :litigate :litigating :litigation :: :: :little :local :long :look : : :: :,: ::,,: :: :looked :,looking :: :lose :lost :,:lot : :lots :lovely :low :lower : ::, :: :: :: :: :Mmagnitude:maintains :making :: :: :maliciously :manager :mandamus manufacturingmaterials ::::matter :: :: :: :matters :Mayor :mean :,,:,,: :: :: ::, :: ::, :: :: :: ::men : :mentioned :meritless ::merits :: :Metropolitan:mice : :,: :microscopic: :mind : :mindful :minimum :minutes :missing :,mistake :mistreatment:moment :morning :motion :,,:, ::, ::,,,motive :Motor :Motors :mouse ::mouses :::move : :Mueller :multiple :multiplied :Muslim :NN :, :national :: :,: ::nature ::necessarily:need ::negatives :net :neutral :: :never :,notice :,notion :no-set-of-facts: :number :: :N.Y :OO : :objective ::objectively:obligation :obtain :obtained ::occurred :occurring :offense :Office :: :,:, :officers :official ::, :officials :,: :, ::,,: :: :,: ::, :: :,: :: :: ::, :Oh : ::OIG :Okay :,: :ones :open :opening :operation :opinion :: :opportunity:oppose :opposed :option :,: :,oral : : :: :order :: :: :ordered :,ordinary ::origin ::, :: :: :ought : :outlines :outside :outweighs :overarching:overcome :overly :,PP :page : : :: :: :pages :,paragraph :: :,,: : ::,,,,,:, ::,,,:,,,:paragraphs :: :,parallel :: :Parents :part : :: :: :particular :: :: :,:,particularly:parties :path :penal :pending :: :penological:, :: :,: :,:,people : ::, ::, ::, :: ::,,,: ::, :,perfectly :: ::period : :permitted :::person : :personal :: ::personally: ::,persons :::perspective :petition :: :: :Petitioner :Petitioners :: :, :: :, ::, :: :,:,,:,,,:, :: :,: :, : :,: :,:, ::,,:Petitioner's :Philadelphia:,pick :picked : :plain :plaintiff :: ::plaintiffs ::, :: ::plant :plausibility:, ::plausible ::, ::, :: :: ::plausibly :plead : ::, :pleaded :,,:pleaders :pleading :,: :: ::,,,: :,:,,:, :: ::, ::, :pleadings :: :pleads :please : ::point :, :: : :: : :: :: :,:, :points :police :,policies :policy : ::,,,:, :,,: :,,,: :,:, :,:, :,,:,,,:,,: :: :,: :,,:,,,:,,: ::,posed :,:position :: :: :possibilities: :,: :possibility :: :,:possible :: : ::postpone ::postponing:posture :post-/ :potential :: :potentially: :: :: :power :,:,,:practice :::precedents :president ::,,: ::, :: ::,, ::, :,: :: :presumption:prevent :,prevented :price-fixing:principal :principles :prison ::prisoner :prisoners :prisons :private :probable :probably :: ::,problem :: :,: ::,, :,:problematic:,problems :procedure :::procedures:,proceedings:process :,produced :program :prohibit :proof :proper ::properly :protect :protection :: ::,,,: : ::protections :: :,prove :: :proven :provided :provides :proving :provisions :public :purpose ::purposes :put : :: ::putting ::, :Qqualified ::,,,:,,:, :: ::,,: :: :,:, :: :qualified-imm...: :question :,,:, :: :,: ::,,: :: : :: :,: :,: :: ::,questioning: :questions :: :: :quite : :: ::quote :quoting :RR :race : :: ::,racial :: :: ::, ::raise :raised :: ::rats :reach :read : : : :: :Reading ::reality :really :: :: :: :realm :,reason :: :: :: ::,reasonable :reasonableness: :reasonably: ::reasons :: ::REBUTTAL: :recognize :recognized :: :record ::reduce :refer :reference :: : ::referred :: :referring :regularity :Reinert : ::,,:,, :: :,:, :: :,: :,:, :: :,:, ::,,:,,,:,,: :,: :,: :,:, ::, ::, :: :,:,,:,,,: ::rejected ::,,related :release :released :releasing ::: :religion ::, ::,religious :rely : :: :relying :remainder:remaining :remember :removed :reply ::report :,:,,,: :,: ::reports :representationsrelief : :respondeat :require :::required :: ::requirement: :requires ::reserve :resolve :::resolving :resort :respect : :: :: :,:respectfullyrespects ::::Respondents: : :responding: :response ::responsibilities: :responsible: :,: :restrictive ::rests :result ::resulted :resulting :retaliatory:reversed :reviewing :re-filing :rid : :right : ::, :: :: :: :: :: :,:,,,rights : :rigor : :Riot :,,::Rizzo : :ROBERTS :: :: :,: :,: :,: :,: :,: :,: :,:,rule :,,,:, :: :,: :: ::, :: :: :: :rules : :: :,: :: :: :run :SS : :sanitary :Sawyer :saying ::, ::, :: :,: :says : : :: :,:, :: ::, :: ::,, ::, :: :Scalia :,:, ::,, :,:,,,:, :: :,:,,,: ::scattered :schedules :scheme :scope :,scrutiny :second : :,: ::,,,: :,: :,: : ::,,:, ::secondly :section :: :,: ::,security :see : ::seek :seeking : separable :separated ::September: ::seriously :set : ::sets : :setting :seven :Sherman ::show ::, :: ::showing ::shows :: ::sides :signed :,similar :: :simply : :: :: :single :situation :: :sloppy :softball :solely : :: :,:Solicitor ::solution :,solve :,somebody :sorry : :: :: ::sort : ::sorts ::sound :sounds ::Souter : :: :,: ::, ::, ::,, :: :,: :Souter's :specific :,:,,: ::,specifically: :specificity :speculative:spend :squishier :stage : ::, :standard ::,, :: :,: ::, ::,,standards ::,,: :,:start :starting :state : :: :: :,stated : :statement :: ::, ::states :,: :: :: :: ::,,: ::State's :statute :,stave :stayed :,steps :Stevens ::, ::, :,:, ::,,:, ::,stop :strict :stronger :subject :: :: :: :: :subjected :subjecting :::::submitted :subordinatessubsidiary :substance :substantive :: :,,:, :: :,:,,sub-question:sues :sufficient :: : :: :sufficiently:suggest :: ::suggested :suggesting :: ::suggests :: :suits : :summary ::superior ::supervisory: : ::, :: :support ::suppose :: :,:supposed ::Supreme :,sure : :: :: :surely :,surprising :: :suspected ::suspects :,: :,:,sustain ::swept ::,sympathetic:system :: :,TT :,take : :: ::taken :: :takes :talk : ::talking :: ::targeted :taught :tell : ::tells :tension :tensions :terribly ::terrorism ::test :testify :tests :thank : :: :,: :,theories :theory :: :thing :,:things :think :, ::,,,,: : ::,, :,:, :: :, :,,,: :,,: ::,,:,,:,,:, :: :,:,,:, :: :,:, :: :: :,,:, ::, ::, :: :,:, ::, :: :: :,: :: :,:, :thinking :: :Third :,thought :: :,: :,:thousands :threat :throw :time :,: ::, ::times : :today : :tort :,,totally :transferred::treatment :trial : :::tried :true : :: :: :: :truly :trust :try :trying :turns : :twice :,:Twitty :two : :: ::,,:,,,: :: :,: ::,Twombly :: :,type : :types :typical :Uultimately :: :uncertainty:unconstitutio...: :underlyingunderscores::understand: :understanding:understood:undue :uniform ::United :,: :: :: :: :: ::universe :unlawful ::unrelated :urge :usually :Vv : : :: ::, :vagueness :valid :versus : :: ::vexatious :view : ::views :violated ::violation :: :: :violence :,Wwait :,wake :want :: :: :: :: ::, :: ::, :wanted :,wants :Washington :::wasn't :: :: ::way : ::, :: :: :: ::,,:,Wednesday:weed ::weeks :weigh :weren't :we'll :,we're :,: :: :we've : :: :,wholeheartedly:wide :Wilkie :willfully :win : ::wondering :word :,:words :work :: :works :world :wouldn't :: :wrestling :wrong :wrongdoers:wrongdoing: :: ::,wrote :Xx :,Yyears : ::yesterday :Yonkers :Zzero :- : : : :: : : ::: : : : :: :: :th : :: :(b)() :,,: ::(e) :a : :a : : : : : :,, (b) : ::/ : :: : :: :: :,:,/-connected: : :,,:, ::, ::, : :: :-page : : : : :(b)()(C) :(e)() : : : :: : : : : : :,,: :,:, : : : : :a : : : :: :,,:, :: : : :,,,,: :,: 