 IN THE SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES v. The above-entitled matter came on for oral Washington, D.C. Tuesday, March , Petitioner - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - x UNITED STATES, : :: No. - AHMED RESSAM. : - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - x argument before the Supreme Court of the United States at : a.m. APPEARANCES: THOMAS W. HILLIER, II, ESQ., Federal Public Defender, GEN. MICHAEL B. MUKASEY, ESQ., Attorney General, Department of Justice, Washington, D.C.; on behalf of the Petitioner. Seattle, Wash.; on behalf of the Respondent. C O N T E N T S PAGE THOMAS W. HILLIER, II, ESQ. On behalf of the Respondent ORAL ARGUMENT OF GEN. MICHAEL B. MUKASEY, ESQ. On behalf of the Petitioner REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF GEN. MICHAEL B. MUKASEY, ESQ. On behalf of the Petitioner P R O C E E D I N G S General Mukasey. ORAL ARGUMENT OF GEN. MICHAEL B. MUKASEY ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONER GENERAL MUKASEY: Mr. Chief Justice, and may (: a.m.) CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: We'll hear argument next in Case -, United States versus Ressam. it please the Court: The question in this case is whether a panel of the Ninth Circuit was correct when it added the words "in relation to," and thereby added an element to section of Title , and we think for at least four reasons, the answer to that question is no. First, and principally, those words are not in the statute that Congress wrote, and this Court has said many times that courts should not add words or elements to criminal statutes. that in section (c) after which section is otherwise patterned. And that shows that when Congress chose to leave "in relation to" out of section it did that intentionally.relational element when it wants to, and in fact, did Third, when section was amended in , Second, Congress knows how to include a time? CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Your argument relies one court of appeals, the only court of appeals to rule directly on the question of whether there was a relationship between the carrying of explosives in the commission of a felony, had held that there was no relational element. Congress was on notice of that fact -­ on the notion that the word "during" in the statute is solely temporal. In other words, it just refers to the GENERAL MUKASEY: Correct. CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: So -- that's not always the case. If I say, you know, I hung lights during the holiday season, you wouldn't think that I temporal connection, but also a relation. would be correct. On the other hand, when Congress in -- in (c) said "during and in relation to," it meant something more than a temporal relationship. It did not say the same thing in , and it failed to say the same thing in (f) or the amended (c). Congress pass a law that said if you wear a wristwatch during the commission of any crime, you get another hung a chandelier, right? There'd be not simply a GENERAL MUKASEY: In that instance, that JUSTICE SCALIA: General, could -- could GENERAL MUKASEY: A statute like that would JUSTICE SCALIA: Surely it depends on what explosive during the commission of a felony, you've gasoline with you when you mail the letter, it seems to me quite as absurd as saying wearing a wristwatch in the course of a felony. That's what troubles me about this. years? be entirely unreasonable. It was not entirely unreasonable for Congress to have said if you carry an added something enormously volatile. the felony is. If the felony is the filing of a dishonest tax return and -- and you have a can of is tempted to distort the "during" to -- to mean performing a completely lawful act wearing a wristwatch, carrying explosives -- given the broad definition of explosives, I guess it would include having -- having some cartridges, explosive cartridges? temptation -­ and you get another years for it just because you're -- you're mailing a letter to the IRS at the same time. GENERAL MUKASEY: It is perfectly lawful. GENERAL MUKASEY: It would. But the JUSTICE SCALIA: That's perfectly lawful, I'm -- I'm tempted to -- I think everybody something else, simply because the consequences of But that was Congress's choice. And if JUSTICE GINSBURG: General Mukasey, is there Congress chooses to amend the statute, respectfully, it Congress was aware that Title , not to mention all the other titles, are chockablock with felonies. There are thousands of them out there. But nonetheless, it wanted to make sure that the mainstream that it was concerned with, which is nicely illustrated by the facts of this case, were taken care of; and so it passed a very broad statute. We concede that it was a very broad statute. "Any felony" couldn't be broader. ought to be Congress that amends it. any indication why this prosecutor chose to hook the carrying an explosive onto a false-statement charge, instead of some charges with which it would have been more logically linked, like the one -- the first one, conspiracy to commit an act of terror -- terrorism? GENERAL MUKASEY: There is. At the time the case was brought, there was evidence to charge the first count, conspiracy to commit a terrorist act. There were some evidentiary problems; a great deal of the evidence to support that count did not, in fact, come until almost literally the eve of trial. A lot of it came from overseas. The count to which the -- the -- the crime to which was, in fact, passed, the making of a false statement, was, to use a colloquialism, a lead-pipe cinch. He had clearly made a false statement. He had clearly carried an explosive while doing it. That prosecutor's decision, in fact, was a very responsible one, because what was shown when they opened his trunk was that this was a very dangerous person; and they wanted to bring a charge on which they were sure to convict him, so that his carrying of the explosive would get him ten years in addition to that charge. JUSTICE KENNEDY: I guess what's troubling me, Mr. Attorney General, is that it -- it does seem to me fair enough to make that charge in this case; but then we -- but then we have the tremendous number of cases where the prosecutor is going to be in the position in a plea-bargain context, say, to threaten to charge this offense with a heavy mandatory minimum. they can look at a plea before it is entered. that might exist in the system generally against -­ against overcharging, against charging for something My understanding is that district judges do not and cannot be involved in plea bargain negotiations; What can you tell us about the safeguards where the result is close to absurd, as in some of these GENERAL MUKASEY: The safeguard -- the history of the system. Rosenberg was decided, I challenge that kind of threat, that kind of application, or at least make it known. We haven't received any notification that hypotheticals about the income tax return and the gasoline and so forth? safeguard that is in the system, in part, involves the believe, in . That's years ago. There's been no, as far as I know, recorded outbreak of this sort of thing any place, in the Third Circuit or any place else. And it seems to me that a defendant would be able to that's -- that that's going on, although there have been charges of -- under (h), relating to ammunition. But with the firecracker in his back pocket who is simultaneously in possession of a $ counterfeit bill has no -­ question would be the converse. Suppose I agreed with you to this point hypothetically that, of course, there's a relationship here. In this case, there's a relationship. He wouldn't have lied if he -- if he hadn't had the explosives. Suppose I accept that. that's scarcely -- that's scarcely a marginal case. The hypothetical of the fellow with the -­JUSTICE BREYER: General, that is -- my GENERAL MUKASEY: We don't, but, what "relationship" means in conversation. It means facilitation under a knife. It means that -­ there has to be a relationship, but including that -­ then what are the other cases you want to prosecute? In the other briefs they list every funny or comical or absurd example they can find; and so I don't believe you want to prosecute those, but tell me if you do. And if there are some other ones, what are they? respectfully, "relationship" doesn't mean in a statute JUSTICE BREYER: Fine. So suppose, in other words, if we -- if, hypothetically, I were to say, well, here there's a relationship; after all, it is a necessary condition for the lying that he was carrying explosives; and it is foreseeable that he would lie on his passport, because he was carrying explosives illegally. So that's all you need. explosives did not facilitate his lying in this case. JUSTICE BREYER: No, it didn't facilitate it, but it caused it. GENERAL MUKASEY: It was -- his carrying of In other words, if that were the decision, you would say fine, that's the end of it. Now, if I interpret the statute that way -­ GENERAL MUKASEY: Maybe it caused it, and GENERAL MUKASEY: No, Your Honor, we would maybe it didn't. JUSTICE BREYER: Well, if it didn't -- all right. Would you be satisfied with a result that says, look, if this carrying of explosives is related to the felony in the sense that it is a necessary condition and foreseeable that a person would do such a thing, that's sufficient? not. Because there are cases in which it may become in this circumstance and possession of firearms? GENERAL MUKASEY: Possession of explosives inherently involves volatility. You asked for a policy explanation. Possession of explosives inherently involves a degree of volatility. Explosives cause necessary to prosecute somebody -- for example, where we have a situation in which we can charge another crime, but the charge of that crime would involve disclosure of classified information; it would disclose methods and sources -- we believe that it was Congress's choice to leave to the judgment of prosecutors the decision of what crimes the charge in conjunction with possession of explosives, and we think that's where the authority should remain. CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Why is there in the statutes a difference between possession of explosives way it treated firearms. JUSTICE SOUTER: Was -- was the further GENERAL MUKASEY: I think the history of the Firearms, for all the harm they cause, cause indiscriminate and potentially vast harm. discriminate harm. And there's every reason for Congress to have treated explosives differently from the explanation that what they were doing in amending the firearms statute was tailoring it more precisely to the possible felony by a police officer situation, and they simply did not face that possibility in the explosives statute? amendments to (c) reflects that. JUSTICE SOUTER: Yes. JUSTICE GINSBURG: So it's a difference in two respects. One is (c) has the "in relationship" requirement, and it also has a shorter term. It's only -- in one it is five years, and the other is ten years. Is that right? GENERAL MUKASEY: Yes, that's correct, Justice Ginsburg; and that underlines, I think, the dangerousness, or Congress's perception of the dangerousness, and the volatility of explosives. And certainly -­CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Is there any --­ GENERAL MUKASEY: -- this case bears that CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Is there any policy GENERAL MUKASEY: There is no policy JUSTICE STEVENS: And you do have policy out. limitation within the department not to charge under this provision unless there is a relationship between the underlying felony and the use of -- the carrying of explosives? limitation that I'm aware of. guidelines with money laundering. thought there was a problem, you could promulgate them suited to do that. mandatory. CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: So if a prosecutor asks for it and there is an underlying felony and there GENERAL MUKASEY: We do. JUSTICE KENNEDY: And I suppose if you (Laughter.) CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: The ten years, though, is mandatory, correct? GENERAL MUKASEY: The ten years is is an explosive, that's an additional ten years, no out of your department. GENERAL MUKASEY: I think I'd be ideally GENERAL MUKASEY: That's an additional ten CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: So if you get -- the underlying felony is of the sort Justice Scalia was GENERAL MUKASEY: He still gets ten years. It is possible, again, to imagine many, many marginal matter what. years, no matter what. talking about, and let's say the person gets probation on that because, you know, it is the first offense, no harm, he still gets ten years. situations; but I think Congress was willing to contemplate that because it wanted to make sure that it swept in the cases that had to be swept in. include, and protected only against the marginal ones. CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, but how many cases are there likely to be -- this isn't one of them -- where you have no "in relation to" connection of common sense? record that you're familiar with. And to add a relational element would leave us unprotected against the cases that Congress wanted to CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Or any historical GENERAL MUKASEY: No historical record that whatsoever? GENERAL MUKASEY: How many cases as a matter CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: I mean, in this GENERAL MUKASEY: I don't think -- I'm not connection. And I would have thought in most cases I'm familiar with, but I don't have complete knowledge of the historical record. case, as you point out, there was, of course, a where the prosecutor is interested in charging -­ because, as you have indicated, this case is -- there would be an actual connection. Now, you may have, as you suggest, problems with proof or -- or evidence; but, as a practical matter, I'm just wondering how often the question we're concerned about arises. aware of any other situation in which it has arisen. But I don't -- I think Congress didn't wanted to rule case. If you wanted to bring a really absurd case, you could have picked a better one than this, because there really is something of a connection. lessons we learned, particularly about the history, is that we don't want to bring absurd cases, and -- and we don't. interesting thing is that you're -- the cases where this out anything when it wrote "any felony." JUSTICE SCALIA: This isn't a very good GENERAL MUKASEY: I think -- I think the CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: But I mean the The cases where this is going to be GENERAL MUKASEY: That -­ CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: You know, the guy who's driving in his car and calls his broker and is is going to arise is not where you're really worried about the explosives; it's going to -- because in that case, presumably there is going to be a relation, and you can use it as you used it in this case. problematic is when you are really interested in the underlying felony. guilty of insider trading and has some firecrackers in the trunk, you're not worried about the firecrackers, but you want to crack down on the insider trading. GENERAL MUKASEY: That has to do more with the breadth of the definition of "explosives" than it has to do with the question of a relationship, because we may very well be concerned with the person who is committing what sounds like an innocuous felony but carrying a load of explosives in his trunk. weaving in a relational requirement isn't going to solve the problem that's posed in what I think is Your Honor's hypothetical, which is the fact that firecrackers are as much explosives as bombs under the "explosives" definition contained in the statute. If there are no further questions, I'd like, So CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, ON BEHALF OF THE RESPONDENT MR. HILLIER: Mr. Chief Justice, and may it Mr. Hillier. ORAL ARGUMENT OF THOMAS W. HILLIER, II Mr. Chief Justice, to reserve the remainder of my time for rebuttal. Mr. Attorney General. please the Court: General Mukasey put his finger on the point here when he said we wanted to charge a lead-pipe cinch case. But in doing so, what we now have is what was a terrorism prosecution and a choice to link the underlying felony -- or to link the carrying explosives charges exclusively to count of the indictment, which charged a false statement, an argument which requests that this Court apply this statute to all sorts of situations theoretically that might even involve explosives that were lawfully carried during a that's what Congress thought, that's what Congress thought when it was creating this statute. statutory construction regime, what we do first of all, of course, is look to the words of the text to see if it completely unrelated felony. And I would disagree that The words -- in applying this Court's Taking first the term "in which," which is means what the government suggests it does in this case. And as, Chief Justice Roberts, you have already indicated, the word "during" has meanings beyond just that in used here. But also other words in the text have significance to describing what the meaning of this particular statute is, and important among those are the terms "in which," which is found in the concluding sentence of the statute. And, of course, that's -- the companion word, the largest word in this particular statute, "explosives," and its very broad definition under (j). at the conclusion of (h) -- and I'll quote. And what it says is that the penalty that's going to attach to felony in which the explosive was used or carried." JUSTICE SCALIA: You're saying it should have said "during which"? the words that were used, Your Honor, establish the notion of a relationship between the felony and the MR. HILLIER: Well, I -­JUSTICE SCALIA: "During the commission of this prosecution shall run consecutively to, quote, "the which the explosive was used or carried"? MR. HILLIER: I just think that the words -­explosive. The word "in" is, as this Court indicated in holiday season." MR. HILLIER: That's very true. And it CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, but just -­just as "during" has more than temporal -- can have more MR. HILLIER: It does, Your Honor. CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: We write "in the Dunn v. Commodity Futures Trading Commission, U.S. , is synonymous with the words "in regard to" or "with respect to." than temporal significance, I think "in" can have temporal significance. fact, it has a, quote, "locational" sort of significance also. But as noted in Dunn, its primary definition, its first definition, is this relational one. And, while it haven't looked at the dictionary -- but "during's" first relationship -- first definition, I suspect, is temporal. correct. where it's not temporal, an example of use of "during" that is not temporal? JUSTICE ALITO: Could you give an example of might have -­ CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: I assume -- I MR. HILLIER: It's temporal. That's MR. HILLIER: I think the example posed by JUSTICE ALITO: But hanging up lights a temporal relationship? But to get to the point of the -- Chief the Chief Justice to General Mukasey is an example of that, Your Honor. "during" the -- the holiday season doesn't -- that's not MR. HILLIER: It's a -- it is a temporal relationship, but it's a relationship between the act that's occurring also, that's the underlying act. Justice Robert's question, the fact that the word may have more than one meaning, particularly in this case, does not exclude the fact that the meaning of "in which" includes a relationship. And the most naturally suggested reading of these words in this case, "in relationship, but there is -­ I will accept maybe more than just for the sake of argument that if you stick to the text alone you've got ambiguity. is that we're here to consider not only text but statutory history, And the statutory history seems to me which" and "explosives" together, is that there is a pretty tough for you to get over. The statute was an argument here for some uncertainty, for some The trouble that I have with your argument JUSTICE SOUTER: Mr. Hillier, I -- you know, to." And I -- that's seems to me the tough point MR. HILLIER: Yes, Your Honor. Two points: amended. The word "unlawfully" was dropped from it, and there was no amendment made, with respect to its cognates, to conform it to the cognate section on carrying a gun that specified "in relation to." And it seems to me that the most reasonable inference to draw from that statutory history is that when Congress amended and technically re-enacted the statute, when it dropped "unlawfully," that it did not want "during" to be read, as it was in the handgun statute, "in relation of the argument. What is your response to that? First, the idea -- the idea of in pari materia, which would suggest that what's happening in (c) ought to be occurring in is -- has not the force that it would if we were talking about amendments to and constructions of the same statute, but rather what we have here are two statutes that are being interpreted by two legislators at different times to achieve different objects. And there's no reason to believe that the -­ well, the force of that -­ mean, the trouble with the different object argument is, as the Attorney General said, there was an evident JUSTICE SOUTER: The different object -- I had cartridges in his gun, presumably, right? MR. HILLIER: Well, Your Honor, I think MR. HILLIER: Your Honor, I think that -­JUSTICE SCALIA: Including the policeman who MR. HILLIER: Right. JUSTICE SOUTER: The negative inference from concern in amending the handgun statute not to sweep in the rogue police officer who happens to have a gun on him when he does something that in fact is unlawful. that is that there was an intent in the cognate explosives statute to sweep in people, whether in fact it was in relation to or not in relation to. the -- when you're looking at what happened to , when "unlawfully" was taken out the words "in which" were added, which I think indicates that Congress had an appreciation of the relationship that's involved in that statute. While the legislative history doesn't say why "unlawfully" was taken out, it seems reasonable to believe that what they were trying to do was conform the purpose did include, when you look at the "explosives" definition, the use of lawful explosives to further crimes. So if somebody has a can of gasoline and they want to use that to threaten somebody and create a statute to the purpose of -- its purpose. And its JUSTICE SOUTER: Okay, fair enough so far as Why didn't it put in "in relation to"? MR. HILLIER: Well, the -- I think we go to Federal crime or to accomplish a Federal crime, before that amendment occurred that -- that would have been a lawful possession of the explosives, so (h)() would not apply. the argument goes. But that still leaves Congress taking the -- sort of making it as difficult as possible for you to take the position that you're taking, rather than as easy as possible. yet another statutory construction tool, or at least observation by this Court that said the Congress can use different words in different statutes to accomplish the it have done so? You've the -- you've got the gun example sitting there. And why would it not have done so if, in fact -- so obvious a thing to do if that's know it didn't do that because the legislative history doesn't inform us. But to draw an analogy from your question with respect to changes done in these two exact statutes, as you read from the government's reply brief, JUSTICE SOUTER: It can do it, but why would what -- if it intended to come out your way? MR. HILLIER: Well, Your Honor, we don't same thing. makes complete sense. the word "he" into at the same time if there was any question about who the perpetrator of the crime was. JUSTICE GINSBURG: And maybe they said -­ it is trying to establish through the words "during the commission of" the fact that it is the defendant that committed that crime, in other words it was he that did so. And we don't take any issue with that; in fact, it But it's interesting to note that (c) in was amended to put these -- to substitute the words "for which he may be prosecuted" instead of "which may be prosecuted." So one might ask why didn't they put maybe because they're trying to draft legislation without using pronouns. (Laughter.) MR. HILLIER: Touché, Your Honor. Yes. JUSTICE KENNEDY: I take it that one of the reasons you make your argument is so that if you prevail and you go back to trial, you would argue that this is understand your question. If you could rephrase it. JUSTICE KENNEDY: If you prevail in this case and we say "in relation to" is part of the statute not in relation to? Is that correct? MR. HILLIER: Your Honor, perhaps I didn't -- that? MR. HILLIER: Yes. JUSTICE KENNEDY: -- and then you go back to JUSTICE KENNEDY: That's right. MR. HILLIER: The government -­JUSTICE BREYER: Why should we agree with the trial court, I assume you will argue to the jury that the government can't show that it's in relation to. MR. HILLIER: Well, Your Honor, if you agree that there's a -- if you agree with the Ninth Circuit in this case, then the case is over. JUSTICE KENNEDY: But it seems to me that in a prosecution, in this prosecution, it might be somewhat difficult to establish in relation to. MR. HILLIER: It would be difficult -­ JUSTICE KENNEDY: And that would be -- even assuming the jury was properly instructed, et cetera, et cetera. were not used to -­ that show the necessity for the very interpretation the attorney general has argued for here? It is just too MR. HILLIER: Right. Right. It's as poison here. They don't have a relationship. The explosives JUSTICE KENNEDY: All right, but doesn't difficult to establish and very dangerous? JUSTICE ALITO: Well, if there's an "in MR. HILLIER: We have a reverse sort of relationship. relationship" requirement, why would it be necessary for MR. HILLIER: Your Honor, if we can look at the facts of this case, I would respectfully disagree. What was done here was a charging decision which made that task impossible. The government could have simply charged this count with count , and we wouldn't be here today because surely the explosives were carried for the purpose of accomplishing the act of terrorism that was charged count . the explosives to facilitate the false statement? Why wouldn't it be sufficient if the false statement facilitated the unlawful use of the explosives? Your Honor, two answers to that: First, it would be at odds with the structure of the statute. If you look at the whole of (h), you see in (h)(), the crime of using an explosive to -- an explosive to commit an underlying felony. And that is that sort of direct relationship that is carried forward in the language of (h)(). But, secondly, that language -- that sort of relationship has been interpreted by this Court in Smith as acknowledged by the government in its briefing to JUSTICE BREYER: That's exactly what's a relationship, in my mind. But I don't see why the relationship policemen comes up; he shoots the policeman. The reason he shot the policeman was because he had his car packed with explosives. mean the relationship that we're talking about. bothering me. The issue in this case doesn't seem to me to be these weird hypotheticals. Of course it requires couldn't be exactly the one Justice Alito was talking about. I mean, imagine a person has a packed car filled with explosives. He's going to blow something up. A And if this -- if this provision -- I mean, I can't understand why this provision wouldn't be aimed much more than what I have. When you look at the statute -­ question on which we grant certiorari. MR. HILLIER: Well, that's -­ (Laughter.) JUSTICE BREYER: That may be, but I don't JUSTICE BREYER: All right. Suppose I don't directly at that kind of thing. MR. HILLIER: Your Honor, I can't say too agree with you about that -­ JUSTICE SCALIA: You could say it is not a MR. HILLIER: Yes, sir. JUSTICE BREYER: So what should I do -­ MR. HILLIER: Well, Your Honor -­ JUSTICE BREYER: -- if I think that shooting filled with explosives is within this statute? And similarly, lying to a customs officer so he won't catch me when my car is filled with explosives is within the statute? know -- but you could say that. You could say that. But the problem is I have to answer the question -- I have to reach an answer that I believe should be sensible. the policeman because he's going to catch the criminal statute is not meant to govern those odd hypotheticals that you come up with? There has to be a relationship, but the one I described falls within the word "relationship." relationship -- if you look at the structure of the statute, surely (h)() does not describe that sort of relationship; (h)() is the next statute or the next subsection of that statute, and its purpose is simply to capture the same criminal objective here, that is to Suppose I believe that, but I also think the Now what do I do? MR. HILLIER: Well, Your Honor, the and so it can't be -- this case still has to go back. JUSTICE KENNEDY: You think on this MR. HILLIER: I would ask the Court -- well, say, the marriage of explosives and a felony. JUSTICE BREYER: I understand that argument. But suppose I don't accept the argument? Then what do I do in this case? That's what I'm asking. I would think the Court would draw some -- an answer from Smith which did describe a relationship contrary to the way Your Honor is doing with respect to this case that goes back to -- goes -- wasn't instructed that way; evidence, on this record, that a jury, if it were instructed to -- that it had to find "in relation to" could return a conviction of guilty including the "in instructed correctly? instructed according to your theory of the statute and on this record and on this evidence, could a jury find your client guilty? attorney general says he needs it. MR. HILLIER: No, Your Honor. JUSTICE KENNEDY: That's exactly why the relation to"? MR. HILLIER: If this case had been JUSTICE KENNEDY: If this case had been JUSTICE SCALIA: Yes, you got it anyway. because it says "shall run concurrently with any other What about the fire? It omits fire entirely explosive was used or the explosive was carried. It's a pretty sloppy job down at the end of (h), isn't it? MR. HILLIER: Beg your pardon, Your Honor? JUSTICE SCALIA: Could I ask you about the "in which," the "in which" thing? It has just occurred to me that "in which" is in a very sloppy clause anyway, term of imprisonment, including that imposed for the felony in which the explosive was used or carried." -- in which fire or the explosive. Fire or the So I wouldn't put a whole lot of weight on the "in which" given that the rest of it is so sloppy. which" -- the point obviously was that it strengthens and informs the relationship here to be more than the coincidental or temporal one the government -­ JUSTICE SCALIA: If you are being very precise, but whoever wrote that was, obviously, not MR. HILLIER: I suppose that goes to the idea that we shouldn't draw a lot of information from the amendments that were occurring on when they weren't even looking at this statute and considering it and its consequences to the changes in -- or having being very precise because he left out "fire" entirely. MR. HILLIER: Well, Your Honor, the "in Your Honor, I would just simply conclude by effect in . indicating that the terms, which I think we agree, naturally suggest that there must be a relationship, and the breadth of the term "explosives" includes a lot of lawful items that can be carried, if they were carried in a felony, must be related to that felony if you're going to have 's effect and its purpose, because when you look at the purpose of the act and the way that they constructed it so carefully and thoughtfully in terms of the crimes that were -- or the -- the use of explosives, it applies only to that portion of the statute that involves illegal use of criminal -- of explosives. And the combination of all of these elements certainly gives force to our argument and tends to rub -- tends to do the opposite to the government. At the end of the day, if there's anything to be said for the government's argument, then there is an ambiguity, and it should be construed in favor of the And I -- just a concluding point to answer Justice Kennedy's questions, the government could have avoided all of this by simply charging this case, as it should have, by linking count with count , where the proof problem wouldn't have been a -- the only defendant. CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Your friend MR. HILLIER: Well, Your Honor -- no, I difference in the proof would have been -- there would have been no difference in the proof. The only difference in the case would have been they would have admitted a different instruction. indicated that this issue doesn't come up very often as a practical matter. Do you disagree with that? don't disagree with that, and I'm not sure why that is. But I think it's been alluded to by the Court already in its questioning. It could be that prosecutors simply recognized this to be a good plea bargaining chip and maybe the other prosecutors understand that there's a relationship required. remaining. brief points on rebuttal. First, Justice Breyer's question and position appears to read in a relational element that's also not in this statute. And our view is that that is something that should be done, if CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, counsel. Mr. Attorney General, you have minutes REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF GEN. MICHAEL B. MUKASEY ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONER GENERAL MUKASEY: I just wanted to make two anybody, by Congress. And secondly, that the Respondent's JUSTICE SCALIA: And maybe gunpowder doesn't include the little bit that's in a cartridge either. reference to gasoline as an explosive I think is a bit of -- is a bit of a reach. I don't think gasoline is generally regarded as an explosive unless it is prepared and processed and presented in a certain way with -- in ways that are not present simply by carrying a can of gasoline to help a -- to help out a friend who's run out of gas. You think it does? GENERAL MUKASEY: I think it does. CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Counsel, could I ask you, do you have an answer to your friend's point about GENERAL MUKASEY: The "in which" simply includes both, number one, the use -- the actual use and, number two, the carrying. the actual use and the mere carrying. point to be that it's surprising that they refer to use of the explosives or carrying of the explosives with reference to the underlying felony, "in which" the -­construction, but "in which" does include the two, both CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: I understood his the "in which" language? I agree that it's not a model of elegant And I understood your position to be that it GENERAL MUKASEY: No, I think it suggests And "in" is accurate as to one but suggests that the explosive was used or carried with respect to the underlying felony. doesn't have to be. simply that the underlying felony was, in fact, committed. JUSTICE SCALIA: Well, it was going to be -­ it was going to be inaccurate as to one or the other of one or two. If you said "during," that would be -- that would be inaccurate as to one. inaccurate as to two. I guess they should have said "in or during" or "in which." questions -­ above-entitled matter was submitted.) They should have added "fire," too, right? (Laughter.) GENERAL MUKASEY: If there are no further Thank you, counsel. The case is submitted. (Whereupon, at : p.m., the case in the CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, Mr. Attorney General. Page broad : :, : A able : above-entitled : : absurd : : : : : accept : : : accomplish : accomplishing : : accurate : achieve : acknowledged : act : :, :, : : actual : :, add : : added :, : : : addition : additional : : admitted : ago : agree :,, : : : agreed : AHMED : aimed : Alito : : : : alluded : ambiguity : : amend : amended : : :, : amending : : amendment : : amendments : : : amends : ammunition : analogy : answer : :, : : : answers : anybody : anyway : appeals :, APPEARAN... : : appears : application : applies : apply : : applying : appreciation : argue : : argued : argument : :, :, : :, : :, : : : : :, :, : arisen : arises : asked : asking : asks : assume : : assuming : attach : attorney : : : : : : : : authority : avoided : aware : : : a.m : : B B : :, : : back : : : :, bargain : bargaining : bears : Beg : behalf :, :,, : : : believe : : : : : :, better : beyond : bill : bit :,, blow : bombs : bothering : breadth : : BREYER : :, : : :, : :, : Breyer's : brief : : briefing : briefs : bring : : : : broader : broker : brought : C C : : calls : capture : car : : : : care : carefully : carried : : :, :, : : :, : carry : carrying : : : : :,, : : : : : :, :, cartridge : cartridges : : : case :, : :, : :, : : :,, : :, : : :, : :, : : :,, :, : : :, cases : : : :, :, : :, : catch :, cause : : caused :, certain : certainly : : certiorari : cetera :, challenge : chandelier : changes : : charge :, :,,, :,, : : charged : :, charges : : : charging : : : : Chief :, : : : : :, : :, : :, : :,, : :,, :, :, :, : chip : chockablock : choice : : : chooses : chose : : cinch : : Circuit : : circumstance : : classified : clause : clearly :, client : close : Page cognate : : cognates : coincidental : colloquialism : combination : come : : : : comes : comical : commission : : : : : : commit :, committed : : : committing : Commodity : common : companion : complete : : : concede : concern : concerned : : : conclude : concluding : : conclusion : concurrently condition : : : conform : : Congress : :, :, completely : : : : :, : : :, : :, : : :, : Congress's : : : conjunction : connection : : :, : consecutively : consequences : : consider : considering conspiracy : : : constructed : construction : : : constructions construed : contained : contemplate : context : contrary : conversation : converse : convict : conviction : correct : :, : : : : correctly : counsel : : : count :,, : :,, :, counterfeit : course : : degree : department : :, depends : describe : : : : : court :, : : :, : : : : : : :, : courts : Court's : crack : create : creating : crime : : :, : : :, : crimes : : : criminal : :, : customs : D D : dangerous : : dangerousness :, day : deal : decided : decision : : : : defendant : : : Defender : definition : :, : :,, : : described : describing : dictionary : difference : : :,, different : :,, :, : differently : difficult : :,, direct : directly : : disagree : : :, disclose : disclosure : discriminate : dishonest : distort : district : doing : : : : draft : draw : : : : driving : dropped :, Dunn :, during's : D.C :, E E : :, easy : effect :, either : elegant : element :, : : : elements : : enormously : entered : entirely :, :, ESQ :, : :, establish : : :, et :, eve : everybody : evidence :, : :, evident : evidentiary : exact : exactly :, : example : : :, : : : exclude : exclusively : exist : explanation : : explosive :, : :, : :, : :, :,,, :, : explosives : :, : :,, :,,, :, : :, : :,,, : :, : : foreseeable : goes : :, :,, : : :,, :, : : : :,, :, F face : facilitate : : : facilitated : facilitation : fact : : : :, : : :, : : : :, : facts : : failed : fair : : falls : false :, : :, false-statement familiar : : : far : : favor : Federal : :, fellow : felonies : felony : :, :, : : : :, : : :, : : :, : : : :, : :, filing : filled : : find : : : : fine :, finger : fire :,,, : : firearms : :,, firecracker : firecrackers :,, first : : : : : : :,, : : : five : force :, : : forth : forward : found : four : friend : : friend's : funny : further : : : : Futures : G G : gas : gasoline : : : : :, GEN : :, : : general : : : :,, :,, : : : : Page : :,, :, : : :, :,, :,,, :, : : :, : : : : :, : : :, : generally : : Ginsburg : :, : give : given : : gives : go : : : : : going : : :,,,, : : : : : : good : : govern : government : :, :, : :, government's : : grant : great : guess : : : guidelines : guilty : :, gun : :, : gunpowder : guy : H h :, : : : hand : handgun : : hanging : happened : happening : happens : harm :,, : hear : heavy : held : help :, Hillier : : :,, : : :, :, : : : :,, :, : : :,, :, : : :, :,, : :, : :, : historical : : : history : : : :, : : : holiday : : : Honor : : : : : :, : :, : :, : :, : : :, : : Honor's : hook : hung :, hypothetical : : hypothetically : : hypotheticals : : : I idea :, : ideally : II : : : illegal : illegally : illustrated : imagine : : important : imposed : impossible : imprisonment : inaccurate : :, include : : : : :, includes : : : including : : : : income : indicated : :, : indicates : indicating : indication : indictment indiscriminate : : inference : : inform : information : : informs : inherently : : innocuous : insider :, instance : instructed : :,,, instruction : intended : intent : intentionally interested : : : interesting : : interpret : interpretation : interpreted : : involve : involved : : : involves : :, : IRS : issue : : : items : J job : judges : judgment : jury :, :, Justice : : : :,, :, : : : : : :, :,,, : :, :,, :,,, :,, : :,, :,, :,,, :,,, : :, :, : :, : :,,, : : :,,, : :, :,,, : :, : :, : :, : :, K KENNEDY : : :, : :,,, :,, Kennedy's kind :, : : knife : know : : : : : : : knowledge : known : knows : L language : : : largest : Laughter : : : : laundering : law : lawful :, : : : : lawfully : lead-pipe : : learned : leave : : : leaves : left : legislation : legislative : : legislators : lessons : letter :, let's : lie : lied : lights : : limitation :, link :, linked : linking : list : literally : little : load : locational : logically : look : : : : :, : : : looked : looking : lot : :, : : lying :, : M mail : mailing : mainstream : making : : mandatory : :, March : marginal : :, marriage : materia : matter : : :, : : : mean : : :, : :,, meaning : :, meanings : means :, : : meant : : mention : mere : methods : MICHAEL : :, : : mind : minimum : minutes : model : money : Mukasey : :, :,, :, :, : :, : :,, :, : : :, :,, :,,, :, : : : : :, Page :, : : N N :, : naturally : : necessary : :, : necessity : need : needs : negative : negotiations : nicely : Ninth : : note : noted : notice : notification : notion : : number : :, O O : : object :, objective : objects : observation : obvious : obviously : occurred : : : occurring : : : odd : odds : offense : officer : : : : Okay : omits : ones : : Page plea-bargain problematic opened : opposite : oral : : : : ought : : outbreak : overcharging : overseas : P P : packed :, PAGE : panel : pardon : pari : part : : particular : : particularly : : pass : passed : : passport : patterned : penalty : people : perception perfectly : : : performing : perpetrator : person : : : : : Petitioner : : :, : : picked : place :, plea :, : please : : : pocket : point : : : : : : : :, points : : poison : police : : policeman : :, : policemen : policy : :,, portion : posed : : position : : : : possession : :,,, : : possibility : possible : : :, potentially : practical : : precise :, precisely : prepared : present : presented : presumably : : pretty : : prevail :, primary : principally : probation : problem : : : : problems : : : processed : promulgate : pronouns : proof : : :, properly : prosecute :, prosecuted : : : prosecution : : :, prosecutor : : : : prosecutors : :, prosecutor's : protected : provision : :, Public : purpose : :, : : :, put : : :, : p.m : Q question :, : : : : : : :, : : : questioning : questions : : : quite : quote :, : R R : reach : : read : : : reading : really :, :, reason : : : reasonable : reasons : : : rebuttal : : :, received : recognized : record :, : :, recorded : refer : reference : : refers : reflects : regard : regarded : regime : related : : relating : relation :, :, : : :, :, : :, : : :, relational : : : : : : relationship : : :, :,,, : : : : : :,, :, : : :, :, : :, : :,, : : : : relies : remain : remainder : remaining : rephrase : reply : requests : required : requirement : : : requires : reserve : respect : : : : : respectfully : : : respects : Respondent : : : Respondent's : response : responsible : Ressam : : rest : result : : return : : : reverse : re-enacted : right : : : :, :,,, Page : : Roberts : : : : : :, : :, : :, : : : :,, : : :, : Robert's : rogue : Rosenberg : rub : rule : : run : : : S S : : safeguard :, safeguards : sake : satisfied : saying : : says : : : : Scalia : : : : : :, : : : :, : : scarcely :, season : : : Seattle : Second : secondly : : section :, :,, : see : : : sense : : : sensible : sentence : shooting : shoots : shorter : shot : show :, shown : shows : significance : :,, similarly : simply : : : : : :, : :, : simultaneously : sir : sitting : situation : : : situations : sloppy :, : : : solely : solve : somebody : :, somewhat : sort : : : : :,, : sorts : sounds : sources : SOUTER : : : : : :, specified : Smith : structure : statement :, : :, States :,, : statute : : : :,, :, :, : :, :,, : :, : :, :, : : : :,,, :, : : : : statutes : : : :, statutory : :, : : STEVENS : stick : strengthens : : submitted : : subsection : substitute : sufficient : : suggest : : : suggested : suggests : :, suited : support : suppose :, : : : : : : Supreme :, sure : : : : surely : : : surprising : suspect : sweep :, swept :, synonymous system : : : : T T :, tailoring : take : : taken : : : : talking : : :, task : tax : : technically : tell : : temporal :, : :,, :,,, :, : temptation : tempted :, ten : : :,, :,, tends :, term : : : : terms : : : terror : terrorism : : : terrorist : text : : :, Thank : : :, theoretically : theory : thing :, : : : :, : : think : : : : :, : : :, :, : : :, :,, : :, :, : : :, :, : Third : : THOMAS : : : thought : : :, thoughtfully : thousands : threat : threaten : : time : : : : : times : : Title : : titles : today : tool : Touché : tough : trading :, : : treated :, Page : : : : : : : : : : : : : :,, : : : : : : : : : 's : (f) : (h) : : : (h)() : (j) : : : (c) : : : :, : : tremendous : : trial : : trouble : : troubles : troubling : true : trunk : : : trying : :, Tuesday : two : : :, : : : :, : : U uncertainty : underlines : underlying : : : : : : : : :, understand : : : : understanding : understood : : United :,, : unlawful : : unlawfully : : :, unprotected unreasonable : :, : word : :, :, : : : : unrelated : use : : : : :, : : :, :,,, words :, : : : : :, :,, : : : : :,, U.S : V v : : vast : versus : view : volatile : volatility : worried :, wouldn't : : :, : : : wristwatch : :, write : wrote : : : X x :, Y years :, : : : : :, : :,, $ $ : - : : :,, : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : W W : : : want :, : : : : wanted : : :, : : : : wants : Wash : Washington : : wasn't : way : : : :, : : ways : wear : wearing :, weaving : weight : weird : weren't : We'll : we're : : : whatsoever : willing : wondering 