Official IN THE SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES Petitioner v. Washington, D.C. Monday, October , - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - x MISSOURI, : :: No. - GALIN E. FRYE. : - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - x argument before the Supreme Court of the United States at : a.m. APPEARANCES: ANTHONY A. YANG, ESQ., Assistant to the Solicitor EMMETT D. QUEENER, ESQ., Assistant Public Defender, General, Department of Justice, Washington, D.C.; for United States, as amicus curiae, supporting Petitioner. CHRIS KOSTER, ESQ., Attorney General, Jefferson City, Missouri; on behalf of Petitioner. The above-entitled matter came on for oral Columbia, Missouri; on behalf of Respondent. Official C O N T E N T S PAGE On behalf of the Petitioner On behalf of the United States, as amicus curiae, supporting the Petitioner EMMETT D. QUEENER, ESQ. On behalf of the Respondent On behalf of the Petitioner ORAL ARGUMENT OF ORAL ARGUMENT OF CHRIS KOSTER, ESQ. ANTHONY A. YANG, ESQ. ORAL ARGUMENT OF REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF CHRIS KOSTER, ESQ. Official P R O C E E D I N G S General Koster. MR. KOSTER: Mr. Chief Justice, and may it But for counsel's error, defendant would ORAL ARGUMENT OF CHRIS KOSTER ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONER (: a.m.) CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: We'll hear argument next in Case -, Missouri v. Frye. please the Court: have insisted on going to trial. That is the test for prejudice. But in Mr. Frye's case, that test was not met. The truth is, despite counsel's error, Mr. Frye knowingly waived his right to trial and solemnly has failed to show prejudice, and therefore his guilty plea remains voluntary, intelligent, and final. Mr. Frye may not assert ineffective assistance by alleging that, but for counsel's error, he could have gotten a better deal on an earlier date. That is not the standard. And the court of appeals should be reversed. JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Counsel, sometimes one's experience has to be challenged. I, for one, have never heard of a case in which parties are discussing a plea, admitted his guilt. Under both Hill and Premo, Mr. Frye Official MR. KOSTER: Well, the plea -- the plea JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: No, that's the second except in the most unusual of circumstances, and they advance a court date to enter the plea. In most cases, they just wait till the court date and tell the judge: I'm ready to plead guilty. This is such an unusual case, because the plea happens on day one. The court below is assuming that between day one and day five, or three or four, the guy would have come in and pled guilty, would have advanced the later court date? occurred on March rd, -- plea, but -- plea deal. December th, , I believe, and -- offense, but yes.JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: He commits the crime on the th or the th -- he commits a second offense on the th or th? JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: All right. My point is, MR. KOSTER: It went -- the -- right. The plea offer -- JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: I'm talking about the MR. KOSTER: The plea offer expired on MR. KOSTER: That actually was a fifth Official MR. KOSTER: It would be less than likely, But the scheduling of a plea once -- once an how reasonable could it be for the -- for a court to assume that the plea offer had been made and that he would have taken it before the January court date that was set? but not impossible, I would say. And it would depend on a myriad of circumstances, many of which are as -- as -- could be just dependent on the defense counsel's own personal schedule. agreement has been made between a prosecutor and a defense counsel, the scheduling of a plea I think is largely a basis of convenience and does not necessarily -- is not necessarily based on the defendant might think, you know, there is really bad evidence out there that they don't have yet. And if I -- I want to nail this deal down as soon as possible. I mean, that would be a reason to -- to move things up and get the plea in early, wouldn't it? that is --preliminary hearing date or any future scheduled date. CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, I suppose the MR. KOSTER: It could be. I would say that CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: I mean, I don't know how often that happens. Official MR. KOSTER: That's possible. I don't --hands of the prosecutors of the country. And if he insists on a trial, you need to right. But it's also exactly another reason to keep the discretion of offering these plea bargains and the ability to take these plea bargains back solely in the JUSTICE ALITO: I'm really puzzled by what as a practical matter is at stake in this case. Under the State court decision, the defendant has the option of either pleading guilty to the charge, in which case he will be right back where he is now, or he can insist on a trial. prove that he was driving with a revoked license. That seems to me -- if there ever was a slam-dunk trial, that seems to me that's the slam-dunk trial. You introduce the records of -- showing that his license was revoked, and you have the officer testify on such and such a date he was driving. So, I don't really see what is involved in this case. was? here. I don't see what that -- as a practical matter, this seems to be -- to me to be a case about nothing. JUSTICE ALITO: I don't see what is at stake MR. KOSTER: The last part of the question Am I wrong? Am I missing something? JUSTICE KENNEDY: But we take the case on prosecutor myself, I would agree with this. This gentleman went into court. He had two options before him. There was not a third option. The -- the plea that was -- that left reality on December th was not there on March rd. He had a binary choice between two options on March rd. He chose not trial. By choosing not trial, it leaves us without a situation where either Hill or Premo prejudice can be shown. the assumption that he hadn't heard of the earlier better offer. Am I wrong about that? unaware of the earlier better offer. That is correct. But in this case also, the defendant went out days later and picked up a fifth charge. So, one of the considerations that I think has to be left with the Court is that the possibility that this particular defendant was ever going to see this plea offer is revoked. this on -- isn't there an assumption that there's a finding, or some lower court judge made a finding that if he had known about the better deal that was offered, almost nil. This was his fifth arrest for driving while MR. KOSTER: In this case, the defendant was Official MR. KOSTER: As a former -- as a former JUSTICE BREYER: I mean, aren't we taking Official MR. KOSTER: That -- what is in the record he would have taken it? is that he would have taken the -day deal on the misdemeanor. JUSTICE BREYER: Yes. MR. KOSTER: But there is also an important element in the record, that when he went in front of the court on March rd and the felony offer was given to the judge, which was years and defer on probation plus days' shock time, the judge in Columbia, Missouri, gave the felony offer the back of his hand. problem. You're saying that, even if he had accepted have turned it down anyway. The judge wouldn't have accepted it. MR. KOSTER: If the judge -- JUSTICE BREYER: Is that your point? MR. KOSTER: Yes, Your Honor. JUSTICE BREYER: Well, then there's a -- somebody must have found somewhere that this made a difference. And so, while, yes, the record says that -- JUSTICE BREYER: Well, then that's a causal it, it would have gone to the judge, and the judge would MR. KOSTER: That --JUSTICE BREYER: That the failure to tell Official And so, the court of appeals had gone back MR. KOSTER: Well, and that is the problem that brings us here today. The Missouri Court of JUSTICE BREYER: Yes. MR. KOSTER: -- through a -- a standard and, more importantly, a misreading of where Hill and Premo takes us. Cert was granted on this case just at the same time that Premo was very clearly re-articulating the Hill standard. him about the special offer of the misdemeanor did in fact make a difference because he would have accepted it and he would have ended up with it. Appeals said that -- misinterpretation, we believe, of the Strickland towards Strickland with a very broad reading just as this Court was coming down with an opinion that very clearly re-articulated the Hill standard, the two-part performance and prejudice test. And that's what we are asking be reversed. JUSTICE ALITO: Suppose he had snapped up this deal as soon as it was offered. By the time he appeared before the court to answer a formal plea of guilty, would the court have known that he had in the interim been arrested yet again for driving without a license? Official and he would have withdrawn it. MR. KOSTER: The court probably would have known as a result of a pre-sentence investigation. And perhaps more importantly, Your Honor, the prosecutor himself would have known about the -- the second arrest, And if I may, it's not always -- we've concentrated so far in the case before and today on subsequent criminal actions. You know, back home in Missouri, the criminal reporting system, we still use on JUSTICE KENNEDY: Well, regardless, your legal position is that there is no basis for setting aside the plea if an earlier, better offer was not That's your legal position, right? MR. KOSTER: My legal position is that a finding -- a conviction was entered on March rd. He pled guilty. The question before the Court is, what five-part carbon paper that you've got to press hard with a pen to get down to the fifth page. It is also possible that the prosecutor learns at a subsequent date of a criminal history that is -- that is material that predates the plea offer. And so, in both directions, it's important that prosecutors have full discretion to take these pleas back. communicated. satisfies a standard by which we are going to unwind it? Official MR. KOSTER: -- percent of the convictions in the country. JUSTICE KENNEDY: -- no Sixth Amendment antecedent to the events of March rd is not the Sixth A Sixth Amendment violation would satisfy that standard, and if -- if there was a Sixth Amendment violation, if the plea was truly involuntary, we would unwind it. But the search for a better deal that is Amendment violation that should begin unwinding -- JUSTICE KENNEDY: You say -- you say there's -- violation when the counsel fails to communicate a favorable offer to the defendant. That's your position. MR. KOSTER: No. Respectfully, Your Honor, ineffective assistance is a two-part test, that there was a performance breach in the failure to communicate, but once the performance breach is accepted, then it has to be run through the Hill standard to find whether Amendment breach. But we -- we do not get there logically because the offer did not exist after -- after December . prejudice has occurred, and then we would find a Sixth JUSTICE SCALIA: Well, I -- I didn't understand that to be your position. that is not my position. My position is that Official assistance of counsel during such negotiations. So, I MR. KOSTER: I -- there's a question in -- JUSTICE SCALIA: I mean, you can say yes or There -- there is a statement in your brief that the question is whether plea negotiations that did not result in a guilty plea constitute a critical confrontation that gives the rise to effective thought your position was that so long as the plea negotiations don't result in a guilty plea, effective assistance of counsel doesn't even come into the equation. no. I mean, you could retract -- retreat from -- believe that plea negotiations are a critical stage? a guilty plea. believe that -- that plea negotiations are not a critical stage under the laws of this Court. case for. We didn't -- we wouldn't have taken the case MR. KOSTER: Is the question -- JUSTICE SCALIA: -- that, I suppose, if you want. MR. KOSTER: Is the question whether I JUSTICE SCALIA: When they do not result in MR. KOSTER: I believe they are not -- I JUSTICE KENNEDY: That's what we took the if we were concerned about what happened in March and Official about that. You know, what do we care about that? I what happened in February. We took the case because of your position, that this is not a Sixth Amendment violation in these circumstances. MR. KOSTER: I do not -- there is a factual question as to whether or not plea negotiations in this case really ever engaged when all that ever occurred was the prosecutor sent a letter to the defense attorney. Only in the most technical of readings -- JUSTICE SCALIA: Yes, but we don't care mean, we don't take cases to figure out those -- those, you know, picky, picky factual questions. The issue that I thought was important here is whether this is a critical stage when -- when the defendant is not -- does believe are a critical stage, because the fate -- in the back and forth between a prosecutor and a defense attorney, the fate of the accused is not -- is not set. place over a very long time. Either party can get up from the table and walk away at any time. And then, perhaps most importantly, the -- the dialogue of the negotiations are not used against the defendant at critical stages, which would contrast it, I suppose, not accept the -- the plea and plead guilty. MR. KOSTER: Plea negotiations I don't And these -- of course, these negotiations can take Official MR. KOSTER: I agree that that would be one of the extensions, if critical stage analysis -- JUSTICE SCALIA: Yes. You tell him to turn with a Miranda situation in a custodial interrogation where that would be a critical stage. JUSTICE SCALIA: And if it were a critical stage, I suppose that counsel would be ineffective, not only if he was a lousy lawyer and didn't know the law, but if he was a bad negotiator. I mean -- right? Being a good criminal lawyer means you -- you got to be a good horse trader, right? down a deal -- negotiations. was a pretty good deal, that would be ineffective assistance of counsel. So, you must -- you must know how to handle yourself in the used car lot, right? question -- JUSTICE KENNEDY: It's -- it's very odd for you to say that -- to me -- that this is not a critical JUSTICE KAGAN: So, Mr. Koster -- JUSTICE BREYER: This is on the basic MR. KOSTER: I understand that that would be MR. KOSTER: -- was applied to plea JUSTICE SCALIA: -- that in fact, you know, one of the ramifications -- Official what the end result is. That's very difficult. stage. If it results in a guilty plea and the -- and the attorney has not done sufficient research to uncover a defense, it can be set aside then. So, it's -- so, you're saying it's not a critical stage depending on I thought we were going to tell attorneys, you have an obligation during the plea bargain process to use professional competence. And you say, well, you do or you don't. That doesn't make much sense. is that attorneys are guaranteed to the accused at critical stages, such as arraignments, plea hearings, trials, but then there is an implied guarantee that comes with that critical stage, and that implied will do research, analysis, and preparation that prepares him for the critical stage. Saturday night with a file open in his lap preparing for a case on Monday, that moment is not a critical stage of trial, on a Saturday night in his den, but it prepares for, it is precedent to, a critical stage. And the failure to engage in that preparation analysis can lead to performance and prejudice at critical stages, but it guarantee is that their -- that the attorney appointed itself is not. MR. KOSTER: My understanding, Your Honor, But when David Boyce is sitting home on a Official JUSTICE BREYER: Well, the -- the question -- I make a counter-assumption. The problem that I -- I have the feeling that I'd like you and the others to comment on, is that you're worried deeply about a practical problem, and that the practical problem is that it would be too easy, as just was suggested by the question, to find that the lawyer, after the defendant is convicted, did a bad job during the plea negotiation, in which case everybody will get That won't work here, I don't think. So suppose what we did, instead of saying there was no right, you simply said you have to prove with some certainty, work out a standard, that there really was inadequate assistance during the plea bargaining, and you have to show something more than a reasonable probability that this would have led to the plea, et two or three bites at the apple. And one of the reasons for that is every brief has been lifting the standards, particularly in respect to prejudice, from Hill, which was addressing a different question. It was addressing the question of missed -- bad performance by the lawyer at trial. And that's hard to track what the effects are, and it isn't that hard to say the trial was unfair, give him a new one. cetera. You have to show that it would have happened. Official Or you have a -- in other words, you have MR. KOSTER: Ineffective assistance of views, insofar as they are willing to give them, on that two tougher standards for this area, but you don't reject the idea of inadequate assistance of counsel during the plea bargaining stage. I'd like people's question. counsel is a -- is a term of art, and it is a two-part test. I believe that there can be performance breaches that occur between -- at the -- at the plea bargaining stage, but that prejudice does not occur until we return to a critical stage, which is -- is when that -- when that plea, when the product of that plea negotiation is returned to a critical stage, and then it has critical stage protections over it, where the judge is there, and there's an allocution and the rest of the protections -- open plea that was made -- that's a critical stage. In fact, he took a plea. But he, I think, has a plausible bargain in the picture, that that plea was not intelligently made because he didn't know that there had been an offer for him to plead to a misdemeanor rather than a felony.argument that the plea he made, the open plea with no JUSTICE GINSBURG: Well, the open -- the MR. KOSTER: In Tollett -- may I? Official egregious in my view, which was the court packing JUSTICE GINSBURG: Yes. MR. KOSTER: In Tollett v. Henderson, the question of the defendant Mr. Henderson's knowing waiver in that case, where the breach was infinitely more that occurred and the African American citizens were excluded from that grand jury pool. Mr. Henderson's lack of knowledge about a previous constitutional deprivation was not -- did not make his waiver unknowing. Same with the analysis in McMann and in Parker and in Brady, to say there is no limiting principle that will allow this omission to unwind the knowing quality of Mr. Frye's waiver and then not open up the floodgates to all sorts of pre-constitutional deprivations. Your Honor. Thank you. please the Court: CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, counsel. Mr. Yang. ORAL ARGUMENT OF ANTHONY A. YANG ON BEHALF OF THE UNITED STATES, AS AMICUS CURIAE, SUPPORTING THE PETITIONER MR. YANG: Mr. Chief Justice, and may it I'd like to reserve the balance of my time, When a defendant pleads guilty -- Official MR. YANG: No, we're not -- JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: It's not a critical -- MR. YANG: We are not taking the view. In JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Are you taking the same position your -- I don't want to call him co-counsel -- Petitioner's counsel is taking, that you are not entitled to an attorney at plea bargaining, unless you waive your -- unless you waive your right to a trial? this case, the alleged deficiency is not really an interaction between the prosecution and the defense counsel in plea bargaining. The alleged deficiency is a failure to inform the defendant of things the defendant would want to know as going forward, and we're -- we are willing to assume the defendant has a right to be properly informed by counsel. But with any Strickland claim, the relevant inquiry is whether or not the defendant has shown cognizable prejudice as a result of a deficient performance by the counsel. assertion, an admission of his own guilt, and his consent that there be judgment entered, a judgment of conviction, entered without trial. court, the conviction rests on the defendant's And when a defendant pleads guilty in open And because the conviction rests on a consent judgment, it wipes free antecedent Official MR. YANG: A -- a guilty plea wipes free all counsel at all in the proceedings, that would be constitutional errors. The one challenge that -- JUSTICE KAGAN: So, I think, Mr. Yang, what Justice Sotomayor was suggesting is that your position does in fact require you to say that if there were no perfectly -- you know, there would not be a constitutional problem with that. Once he pleads guilty, it just wipes away the fact that no counsel has been appointed for him. kinds of constitutional violations that went before. JUSTICE SCALIA: No, but the guilty -- I mean, no, the reason that is not true is that the guilty plea must be entered with advice of counsel. You erase everything if it has been entered without advice of counsel. guilty plea is entered, this Court has held that the one remaining challenge that would be allowed is the challenge to the knowing and intelligent waiver of the right to trial, which is what the guilty plea is. Now, MR. YANG: Correct. And the guilty plea -- JUSTICE SCALIA: So, the guilty plea doesn't acknowledge that, don't you? MR. YANG: Correct. When the counseled in order to show that you were prejudiced -- Official JUSTICE KAGAN: So, does that mean, Mr. MR. YANG: We are not taking the position MR. YANG: We are not saying that -- that -- JUSTICE KAGAN: All the negotiations could Yang, a State could set up a system where it says we're going to do all our negotiating with the defendant with no counsel present in the room, but we're going to keep a lawyer on board just in the courtroom to advise him whether he should plead -- you know, what -- you know, to advise him about the plea that he has struck, even though he struck this plea with no counsel in the room, and that would be perfectly okay? be uncounseled. that States can deprive counsel or deprive counsel from participation in the guilty plea process. But what we are saying -- you can say that. It seems -- MR. YANG: Just as we're not saying that there can be coerced confessions, not just like we're MR. YANG: No --JUSTICE KAGAN: You are saying that, because you're saying that in the end, the guilty plea wipes all constitutional error away. JUSTICE KAGAN: Well, I don't understand how saying that a statute can impermissibly burden the right Official What the Court recognized is when you plead to trial by putting a death sentence on -- that's available only when you go to trial. We're not saying any of that is allowed. But what we are saying is when a -- and that was the Brady trilogy, Brady and McMann and ultimately in Tollett, which led to Hill. guilty in open court, you are waiving your right to trial. And the relevant inquiry, the only inquiry once the defendant has admitted guilt, is to determine whether or not the waiver of the trial rights were knowing and voluntary. And the reason that that is a relevant inquiry is because you have a constitutional right to trial, and due process requires that the waiver of those trial rights be knowing, intelligent, and voluntary. question and said: You need to show deficient advice in the context of pleading guilty; and in addition, you need to show that that prejudiced you because, absent -- actually not waived your right to trial; you would have asserted your right to trial and gone to trial. That's the standard that applies. JUSTICE KENNEDY: If defense counsel gives wrong information to the defendant about witnesses that And in Hill, the Court confronted the if you had received proper advice, you would have Official relevant -- MR. YANG: It can, and because what's JUSTICE KENNEDY: All right, so -- and MR. YANG: Right, right. The key is that --JUSTICE KENNEDY: Why -- why is there no problem when he doesn't adequately advise a client of earlier better offers? can testify on his behalf and so forth, very bad legal advice, that's -- that can be ground for setting aside the plea, correct? that's because counsel pre the entry of the plea did not adequately advise his client. -- when you plead guilty and your counsel has advised you wrongly in a way that would have changed your mind about the merits of going forward on trial, you can show that the waiver of the trial right is something that was prejudiced. But because -- had you known, had you been properly advised, you would have exercised the whole goes to trial, not only a right to a trial by jury but all the trial rights that go with it. But when you instead plead guilty in open court -- and the claim here is not that the defendant panoply of rights that the Constitution provides one who would have exercised his rights to trial. The claim is MR. YANG: It's a different prejudice. The Official those other guys come up with a favorable plea deal he would have waived his rights to trial either way. That is not prejudice to the -- that would overcome the guilty plea, which again rests on -- JUSTICE KAGAN: Well, Mr. Yang, there are different kinds of unfairness. One kind of unfairness is when you're badly advised and you, therefore, waive your right to trial when you would have gone. But there's another kind of prejudice, which is, you know, you and other guys are all in the same situation, and because their lawyers are paying attention, and you come up with an unfavorable plea deal because your lawyer has fallen asleep. And to the extent that we have an effective assistance right that means something, that whether or not there was a prior error, once you plead guilty, the question is not whether there were other deals on the table; the question is whether that waiver question. Why isn't that the question? question, it would call into -- this Court, in -- in unfairness needs to be addressed by it, doesn't it? MR. YANG: Well, when -- again, once --going back to Brady and then in Boykin, explained that of -- JUSTICE KAGAN: Well, I guess that's the MR. YANG: Well, right, but if it were the Official What we have here is not anything associated what's -- the relevant question when you enter a guilty plea is whether you have waived your rights to trial validly. And, in fact, that has to be spread upon the record. Rule (b) has now been modified by this Court to go through the things you have to check to make sure that that waiver of your trial rights are knowing and voluntary. with the waiver of trial rights. What really the defendant is claiming is some entitlement be able to take another deal that would not have resulted in trial. But that is not relevant to the waiver of trial rights. That would be recognizing another type of right. But this Court has repeatedly held that there is no right to a guilty plea, there is no right to plea bargaining; once you have a plea agreement, there is no right to enforcement. The only rights that come into play is when that guilty plea is rendered into a judgment. And when you don't get there, but instead you plead guilty and you have waived your rights to trial, you have consented to the entry of judgment, and even if you had received better advice you would have consented to the -- you would not have gone forward to trial, you have -- the basis on which the conviction rests remains valid. And that's what -- guilty, is whether or not you would have, if properly advised, insisted on your trial rights and gone to trial. That's the standard set forth in Hill. And the reason -- got what you deserved, right? MR. YANG: Precisely. And this Court in Premo addressed the exact same question. In Premo, there was a contention that had counsel done better before by filing a motion to suppress, it would have been in a better position to secure a better plea agreement from the prosecution. But the Court concluded that, no, the relevant inquiry, once you have pled a plea opportunity that he lost due to counsel's conceded inadequacy? And I think it is accepted that not telling him of the plea offer was ineffective representation. Is there any case where the defendant a trial, right. MR. YANG: If he pleads guilty? JUSTICE GINSBURG: Yes. If he doesn't seek JUSTICE GINSBURG: Mr. Yang, in your view, is there any situation in which a defendant could regain could regain the plea opportunity that he lost? Official JUSTICE SCALIA: You have admitted that you MR. YANG: I'm sorry. I didn't catch that. JUSTICE GINSBURG: Yes. If he doesn't want Official MR. YANG: If he has -- if he has pleaded have to set aside the judgment. The judgment rests on to go to trial and he's going to plead guilty, is there any circumstance where he could regain that lost opportunity? guilty and he validly waived his rights to trial because he would not have asserted them, then I think under Hill what you have is a defendant who admits guilt, there's no real risk of any kind of error in that determination, and the judgment which must be set aside -- remember, we the admission of guilt and the waiver of trial. The judgment cannot be set aside at that point, because this Court has long recognized the -- the special force of finality with respect to guilty pleas. That's because First, guilty pleas are an important part of the system, and it would be -- both delay and impair the orderly administration of justice any time we open another avenue to challenge guilty pleas. But, two, admitted guilt, there is almost no risk of error, and the defendant has gotten the proper sentence and the proper conviction. CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, counsel. MR. YANG. Thank you. -- for several reasons. once the defendant has stood up in open court and Official CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Mr. Queener. ORAL ARGUMENT OF EMMETT D. QUEENER ON BEHALF OF THE RESPONDENT MR. QUEENER: Mr. Chief Justice, and may it please the Court: Galin Frye entered a plea of guilty to felony driving while revoked and was sentenced to years in prison. His trial lawyer failed to inform him that the prosecutor was willing to allow him to accept a plea offer to a misdemeanor charge and recommend days in jail. Fundamental fairness and reliability of criminal process requires that an attorney provide his client information regarding matters in his case. the law to apply to this individual the punishment he deserved for the crime that he committed? I mean, the object of the system is to put -- is to punish people who commit crimes in a certain degree. What could be more fair than that? MR. QUEENER: Fairness includes a whole range of sentencing options. And in this case, the prosecutor was making a determination of what was fair And here he admitted he did the crime, and he got the degree of punishment that the law provides. JUSTICE SCALIA: Why? Why is it unfair for in this case when he made the offer. Official MR. QUEENER: Part of the consideration that JUSTICE SCALIA: That's true, and he did been guilty of more than what the prosecutor had liability that he's willing to accept in entering a plea of guilty. JUSTICE SCALIA: Ex ante, I suppose you could say that. But when you look at it later, it's clear that that would have been unfair. In fact, this individual was perfectly willing to admit that he had offered. a defendant has to make during the plea bargaining process or plea negotiation process is determining the that when he entered the plea of guilty. You -- you do not contest he was well advised when he entered that plea that it was knowledgeable and he admitted that that's what he had done and was willing to accept the degree of punishment prescribed by law. plea in terms of what he was admitting to, he was willing to and had to agree that he had committed the crime of driving while -- while revoked. But the plea was open in terms of sentencing, and he was allowed to argue for something lower than the sentencing. He only knew that was the available options at that time. MR. QUEENER: Well, he was -- the guilty He wasn't aware that the prosecutor had made Official JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Counsel, I have a MR. QUEENER: Okay. JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: All right. What exactly attorney's failure to communicate the plea. MR. QUEENER: The plea was unknowing and And, number two, identify the right he was available an option to him to limit his exposure for that offense to days. two-part question. made his plea unknowing or involuntary, number one? deprived of, substantive or procedural, by his involuntary because he was not made aware by his counsel's unprofessional representation of all of the circumstances available to him, the consequences of -day on a misdemeanor if he had been aware of that. JUSTICE ALITO: Suppose he had been told that -- suppose he had been told that, and the prosecutor said, well, yes, that's true; I made that was then off the table. So, what good would it have done him to know about something that happened in the past but was no longer available? MR. QUEENER: Well, this offer was only no longer on the table at the time he entered the plea of entering that guilty plea, that would have included the offer, but it's off the table now. And apparently, this Official JUSTICE ALITO: No, I understand that, and guilty, because it had expired, and that was a result of counsel's ineffectiveness in failing to communicate that to him. The lower court, the court of appeals, made a finding that this offer was available, and he could have taken advantage of it before it expired. And that was a finding by the court below. it may have been unfair, but I don't see why it's involuntary. Because I don't see that -- advising him that he had an option at some point in the past which was no longer available really doesn't have much of a --doesn't have any bearing on the voluntariness of his plea to a later less-favorable offer. it then. It's not that it's involuntary now because that he knows it. It was involuntary because he didn't know it then. expires. Then there's a guilty plea hearing. And he doesn't -- and the defendant enters a -- a guilty plea but doesn't know about the prior offer. Is -- is there injury? MR. QUEENER: I -- that's -- it seems to me that that's involuntary in the sense that he didn't know JUSTICE KENNEDY: Well, suppose the case in which a plea offer's made, not communicated, and MR. QUEENER: There is if there is an MR. QUEENER: It's unknowing in the sense MR. QUEENER: What he -- what's unknowing Official JUSTICE KENNEDY: No, is the plea JUSTICE KENNEDY: Well, you know, Judge, I'm really sorry I didn't accept responsibility months MR. QUEENER: It is --JUSTICE KENNEDY: And what would he -- what increase in sentence. And that's the situation here. involuntary? Is it -- pardon me. Is it unknowing? would he have done had he known? that he did not know the full consequences of -- earlier. about that is the potential consequence that he is choosing in deciding to plead guilty. And if I may, that's the second part of your question. The right that he has is the right to make fundamental decisions in his case, one of which is to accept a plea bargain and plead guilty. JUSTICE SCALIA: Doesn't -- doesn't the rule that the plea offer may be withdrawn at any time by the prosecutor -- indeed, even after it has been accepted -- doesn't that well enough establish that there is no right to profit from that plea offer, that there is no constitutional right he's been deprived of, given that the prosecutor can withdraw it even after he accepts it? Official MR. QUEENER: That can be -- excuse me --He is entitled to the right to make a knowing and that can be -- excuse me -- that can be withdrawn at any time by the prosecutor, but we're not arguing that there is a right to a particular plea -- a particular plea. voluntary acceptance of a plea, a knowing and voluntary guilty plea, and that requires that he know all of the information. And the record that we have in this case, there's nothing to suggest that that plea would not have gone forward. The mere potentiality for withdrawing the plea -- JUSTICE SCALIA: I -- I had hoped you were making some argument other than the knowing argument, because as prior discussion has shown, even if he had known, it would have made no difference to whether he accepted the later plea. Suppose he had been told, "oh, by the way, there was an earlier plea. It's too late to accept it now. Do you want to take this plea?" He says, "well, is gone. Do you want to take this plea or not?" He would have taken it. lapsed plea have to do with whether his guilty plea is knowing and voluntary? It doesn't seem to me to have oh, I'd like the earlier." "I'm sorry, the earlier plea What does the knowledge of the earlier Official the earlier offer. And I find it hard to see that MR. QUEENER: The right is to enter that MR. QUEENER: Well, the knowing -- yes. JUSTICE SCALIA: I thought you had some that point, which includes the limitation on his exposure for the offense. This is sort of a sentencing issue. And an increase in sentence is a -- is prejudicial. anything to do with that. So, I -- other argument that was somehow a right to profit from right, given that the prosecutor can withdraw the offer and, indeed, even withdraw it after it's accepted. plea knowing the full consequences of what he's doing at they would not -- they would not order the prosecutor to renew that earlier plea. So, they said the options were you can get a new trial -- you can get a trial or you can replead the open plea. But wasn't it -- didn't the court say we will not order the prosecutor to reinstate the earlier offer? Honor. Their finding, more specifically, I think was that they did not feel like they were empowered to do JUSTICE GINSBURG: But he's -- the Missouri Supreme Court said in what -- that the prosecutor -- MR. QUEENER: That -- that is correct, Your so. We certainly believe that they can -- they are Official guaranteed fell down on the basic, fundamental, obvious duty of communicating the relevant plea agreement? empowered to do so in the sense that this is a remedy provided for a constitutional violation. JUSTICE BREYER: Yes, but what about as a constitutional violation that, in a context of a world where percent of all people in prison are there as a result of bargaining and guilty pleas arranged with prosecutors -- in that context, it's fundamentally unfair to deprive a person of his liberty for years instead of months because the lawyer which he is Your Honor. (Laughter.) MR. QUEENER: That -- that is the issue where, in terms of the sentencing outcome, this is his attorney to provide him a sentencing of -- difference is a -- is prejudicial, excuse me, under Strickland, and the remedy for -- I guess going back in -- even more basic than that -- is that that ineffective knowledge that he is required to -- that's required by MR. QUEENER: I agree with you completely, JUSTICE SCALIA: And you would also --JUSTICE BREYER: So, is there any support for me? assistance of counsel is -- has to be remedied. Official JUSTICE SCALIA: But if that's ineffective ineffective assistance as well? If it's absolutely MR. QUEENER: I'm going to have to couch that in terms of saying it would depend on the assistance of counsel, surely it is ineffective assistance of counsel to advise him to turn down an offer that he should have snapped up. Isn't that clear that this was a great deal, and the lawyer said, nah, you shouldn't take it -- is that ineffective assistance or not? circumstances. What you have to look at -- JUSTICE SCALIA: I gave you the circumstances. It's clearly a super deal. Any good lawyer would have told him to take it. take it. whether or not there is prejudice from that, and that -- JUSTICE SCALIA: No, it would be ineffective MR. QUEENER: Okay. JUSTICE SCALIA: And this lawyer says don't Is that ineffective assistance? MR. QUEENER: That would probably not be assistance, and the question would be prejudice. Is ineffective assistance. JUSTICE SCALIA: It would not be? MR. QUEENER: The question would then be Official MR. QUEENER: I think an attorney can JUSTICE SCALIA: Then we're in the soup. that it? provide reasonable representation in making that sort of an offer. JUSTICE SCALIA: Well, give me a yes -- a yes or no to the question whether, if every reasonable lawyer would have told him to snap up this offer, but his counsel tells him, no, turn it down -- yes or no, is that ineffective assistance? MR. QUEENER: In that circumstance, it is ineffective assistance, because he has to do what is a reasonable standard of representation. Then we're in the soup because every one of these pleas earlier plea, or I should have -- I should have taken it but -- I mean -- and I suppose that if he goes to trial, then you would also say that trial should not have occurred because it was the ineffective assistance of therefore, we're going to -- right -- retry it and set aside the trial? would --is subject to the contention that, oh, there was an counsel that caused him to turn down the plea, and, MR. QUEENER: Under that circumstance, that JUSTICE SCALIA: Yes. Official Now, have they developed -- as you look MR. QUEENER: Yes. JUSTICE BREYER: -- for the last years. And, presumably, you, but not me, have read a lot more MR. QUEENER: -- may well be -- JUSTICE BREYER: But, now, you've read these cases, and now we're right on what I think is the point, because we've both defined a possible constitutional right, but there's a practical problem. All right? Now, the States and others have dealt with this on your side -- cases. across those cases, are there some States or places that have developed reasonably tough standards in respect to what counts as ineffective assistance and in respect to whether it made a difference that would help to alleviate the concern that this would turn into a great mess? Which it hasn't, apparently. Strickland standard. It's the high bar of deficient performance and prejudice under Strickland. And -- of Strickland cases, and the lower courts do, too. CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, we get a lot MR. QUEENER: As I understand these -- these cases, the -- the standards being applied are the MR. QUEENER: Correct. Official CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: That's not much MR. QUEENER: I mean, that -- that's certainly true. I mean, we -- we have -- JUSTICE ALITO: Well, in the case -- where MR. QUEENER: Right. JUSTICE ALITO: So, there's always going to comfort in terms of what the consequences of a decision in your favor would be. the case goes to trial, prejudice isn't going to be very hard to prove. The person turned down a -year deal and gets -- and after trial is sentenced to years. So, you've got -- you're got prejudice right there, right? be a very good argument for prejudice where a person turns down a favorable deal and then gets slammed after answer a little bit because I think where -- what the Court has to -- to keep in mind is the rational decision requirement that I think was reiterated in -- in the defendant was making a rational decision in that choice. It's not simply that there was another offer out there. It -- was the decision rational on the part of the defendant to accept or reject that offer that was Padilla. You're going to have to look at whether or not MR. QUEENER: I'm -- I'm going to qualify my a trial. there? Official CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Counsel -- JUSTICE ALITO: No, but the point is just CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: No, go ahead. JUSTICE ALITO: The point is just that MR. QUEENER: That may well be the --JUSTICE ALITO: There's prejudice -- MR. QUEENER: That may well be the easier that -- I'm sorry. prejudice isn't going to be very tough to show, is it? You turned down a -year deal, and then later when that was off the table, you accepted a -year deal. part of the -- of the equation. But there's still going to -- show in the causal connection that he would have taken that deal. have taken it, it might be fairly easy to show. And that's where in the back of my mind I'm thinking that maybe we want something tougher than reasonable probability, that you have to show that it really would MR. QUEENER: That's -- yes. JUSTICE BREYER: And if -- if you're going to use the words "reasonable probability" that he would JUSTICE BREYER: Why? Because you have to show a causal connection. So, you'd have to show --have made a difference. Official MR. QUEENER: I -- I think reasonable JUSTICE GINSBURG: But you are -- you are leaving out of the picture the prosecutor's prerogative probability is a -- is a workable standard that we've used for many years. to withdraw his plea. That you said that the court -- said it lacked authority to order the State to offer any bargain, but also the court said, I'm not going to require the prosecutor to renew an earlier offer. One thing is clear in this case: The prosecutor did nothing wrong. The wrong was on the part of defense counsel. So, why should the judge disarm the prosecutor, take away the prosecutor's right to change his mind? Sixth Amendment violation, and that is to put the defendant back into the position as nearly as possible as he would have been in at the time and at the time the offer was open. This is not a situation where the prosecutor is being ordered initially or the first instance to make an offer; it -- this is being viewed as the offer that was originally made is still available and open to the defendant. JUSTICE SCALIA: Yes, but at the time, that offer could have been withdrawn by the prosecutor. And MR. QUEENER: The -- this is a remedy for a Official don't believe. there's a constitutional violation -- MR. QUEENER: Well -- JUSTICE SCALIA: -- because there really you're saying now it can't be withdrawn. So, you're really not putting him back in the situation he was in. MR. QUEENER: There's -- there's never going to be a perfect remedy for any of these violations, I JUSTICE SCALIA: I think that's right. MR. QUEENER: Right. JUSTICE SCALIA: And that's one of the things that causes us to be suspicious of whether isn't any perfect remedy. perfect, as close to perfect as we can get, which is what is required for Sixth Amendment remedies, that it circumstances where one party -- the interests of one party may be infringed upon, if that happens -- they can't be infringed upon unnecessarily. This is a necessary infringement. The State bears the burden of ineffective assistance of counsel, and if that's in a -- MR. QUEENER: There can't be a perfect --JUSTICE SCALIA: In some cases, not even a close to perfect remedy. MR. QUEENER: I think this is close to mitigate it to the extent possible. And in those Official CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Counsel -- JUSTICE ALITO: On the issue of --CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: I'll go this time. Counsel, on page of your brief, you quote an erroneous sentencing, then the State has to bear the burden for the erroneous sentencing. Alford for the proposition that a valid plea must be a voluntary and intelligent choice among the alternative courses of action open to the defendant. MR. QUEENER: Yes. CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: On the next page, you say when Frye entered his guilty plea before the trial court, he was completely unaware that counsel's ineffective delay had forever foreclosed those options. find you saying that this was a valid plea. validity is whether it's an intelligent choice, as you quote, among the alternative choices of action open to the defendant. The next page you say these options have forever been foreclosed. So, they weren't open to the defendant. MR. QUEENER: Well, those were foreclosed simply as a result of trial counsel's ineffectiveness, Now, I put the two of those together and MR. QUEENER: No, it was -- CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: The question of Official which -- which caused him to be unaware that they had been ever available to him, so that -- that how the plea becomes involuntary is not that he's aware of what the situation is at the time that he's entering the plea, because there are many other circumstances that go into his decision of whether or not to enter a plea. Those alternatives were only no longer available to him as a result of counsel's failure to perform his duty professionally and communicate the offer. JUSTICE ALITO: On the issue of remedy, as the Respondent are you not limited to the remedies that were provided in the judgment of the State court? MR. QUEENER: No, I don't believe so, because the State court, the court of appeals, simply position that he was in, and I think that is the remedy under the Sixth Amendment for that violation. JUSTICE ALITO: Well, you didn't file a cross-petition, and there wasn't one granted. So, aren't -- aren't you limited to defending the judgment below? Can you ask for a modification of the judgment below in your favor? in the -- in this case is, what is the appropriate thought it was not empowered to put him back in the MR. QUEENER: With the -- the second point remedy? And -- Official JUSTICE GINSBURG: And that's -- is that the expecting you to address it. JUSTICE ALITO: You think that because we added a question, that acts as the functional equivalent MR. QUEENER: Yes. Yes. JUSTICE GINSBURG: So, the Court was question that the Court raised? MR. QUEENER: But we did file the petition challenging the -- the finding of the -- or the relief provided by the court below. of a granted cross-petition that would permit modification of the judgment in your favor? I recall, that cert petition was still pending. I may this case. recognizing that the remedy that the Missouri Supreme Court did give was a futile remedy? That is, to plead defendant apparently doesn't want to go to trial. futile remedies, and that's why it's really obvious that the remedy has to be something else. This is not a situation where he does have a very -- a very good be wrong about that, I'm not sure, that it was just into MR. QUEENER: No, but the last I -- the last JUSTICE GINSBURG: Are -- are you guilty, to have another open plea or trial, because this MR. QUEENER: I think both of those are Official him the prejudice in this case. So, the remedy being JUSTICE GINSBURG: But why should -- now the plea offer was remade, the part about -- what was it -- years with days in jail? likelihood of succeeding at trial. That's not going to do him any good. That won't get him a misdemeanor where he'll be sentenced to days. The open plea is basically the same -- the very same thing that's causing provided by Missouri Court of Appeals is essentially no remedy at all for the prejudice that he suffered. that we know what the judge's sentence was, and part of I'm not going to give him just days; I'm going to put him in jail for the whole years. Now, if that's -- this is the sentence that the judge gave, he rejected the -- half of the plea bargain, so surely he would have rejected the more generous one. entirely the only answer we can draw from this record. At the time that this -- or this guilty plea was being entered and the sentence was handed down, this was an open plea, it was not an agreement. If they had gone to court on a plea agreement between the prosecutor and the defense, and that was up for a -- an amendment down to a MR. QUEENER: Yes. JUSTICE GINSBURG: And the judge said, no, MR. QUEENER: I -- I'm not sure that's Official MR. QUEENER: The open plea basically means JUSTICE SCALIA: I'm not sure I understand the difference between an open plea and a plea there is not an agreement between the parties. Now, misdemeanor and a reduced charge -- you know, that is something more definitive. Then the judge would be looking at what the parties had agreed to at that point. agreement. He just comes to the judge and says I'm willing to plead to this without the prosecution having offered it? they may each know what either party is going to argue for or recommend, but there's not an agreement between the parties. leave the court with a little more flexibility than -- than he might otherwise exercise if they came to him with an agreement. agreement -- MR. QUEENER: Yes. JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: -- always left it up to the judge whether to accept either the felony with shock JUSTICE SCALIA: Okay. MR. QUEENER: And I think that -- would JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: I'm sorry. Just to make sure. I thought the earlier, the November th letter treatment or the misdemeanor with days. So, the Official judge was always free to reject either of those two? MR. QUEENER: I think the deference to the trial court on probation was in that first one, the years with defer to the court on probation. If they had agreed on the days in the misdemeanor, that would have been a plea agreement between the two parties. That would have been a definitive -- JUSTICE SCALIA: Well, he could still -- JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Binding the judge? JUSTICE SCALIA: He could still -- MR. QUEENER: Not binding the judge. No, that would not bind the judge. It never would. The judge would have the opportunity, at that point -- the only time -- the only thing the judge would have of sentence. If the prosecutor reduced that from a felony to a misdemeanor, the judge couldn't reject that. accept it. had to accept the days. accept the days. MR. QUEENER: He would have had to -- JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: But he would not have discretion over at that point would be the actual amount JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: He would have had to MR. QUEENER: He would not have had to JUSTICE SCALIA: But you're -- Official JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: What proof -- I'm sorry. MR. QUEENER: I don't have proof in the record that he would have. What I have in the record -- What proof did you have in the record that the judge would have accepted the days? there is nothing in the record to suggest that that would not have happened. The appellate court found -- in fact by making the determination that Mr. Frye was prejudiced, necessarily made the conclusion that that plea would have gone forward. The motion court said nothing to refute that. There was nothing in the court's findings that the court would not have accepted that agreement had the parties come before it with that. remaining. concept of sentencing equivalency. And certainly sentencing equivalency is an important goal, both at the Federal system and we've tried at the State system. But If there are no further questions --CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, counsel. General Koster, you have minutes MR. KOSTER: Thank you, Your Honor. Two of the Justices questions raised the REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF CHRIS KOSTER ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONERsentencing equivalency is not an avenue that the Sixth Official Amendment is intending to reach. The essential question here, to Justice Breyer's earlier question that I think I didn't answer properly, is should we begin unwinding these convictions in search of lost plea opportunities? I think that we should not. It undermines the -- there were long discussions in both Hill and Premo about the importance of the finality of these and our being able to rely on the finality of these decisions. There's mutual reliance. There's State opportunities that Mr. Frye is asking this Court to lead us toward takes a point of representation beyond the limited scope of the Sixth Amendment in Gonzalez -- Gonzalez-Lopez and other courts, the limited -- the limitation of the Sixth Amendment that this Court has always appropriately articulated. reliance as well because, when these offers are made, the State does not interview witnesses, the State does not send evidence to the lab, the State does not, you know -- sometimes even get to the point where the charges are made. So, there's State reliance and --which is synonymous with a reliance of justice on the finality of these agreements as well. And also, the search for these lost For this and other reasons stated in our briefing, the Missouri Court of Appeals should be Official CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you counsel. The case is submitted. (Whereupon, at : p.m., the case in the above-entitled matter was submitted.) reversed. Thank you. A ability : able : : above-entitled : : absent : absolutely : accept : : :, :, : : : :,, acceptance : accepted : : : : : : : : : :, accepts : accused : acknowledge : : action :, actions : acts : actual : added : addition : address : addressed : : addressing :, adequately : administration admission : : : : admit : admits : admitted : : : : : : admitting : OfficialOfficial : : arraignments : : :,: :,avenue :arranged : arrest : : aware :arrested : ::, ::, : art : a.m : :agreed : : anyway : agreement : apparently : : : asleep :assert :asserted :advance : advanced : advantage : advice :, :, : : advise :, :, : advised : : : : : advising : African : agree : : : : : : : :, :,,, : : : agreements : ahead : Alford : ALITO :, : American : amicus : : : amount : analysis : answer : : : : ante : antecedent : : ANTHONY articulated:aside : :: :,: :asking :::: : : APPEARAN... : : : : : assertion :appeals : : assistance :: :,: ::, :: :,,:,,,:,,: :Assistant :appeared : appellate : apple : applied : : :associated :assume :applies : apply : appointed : assuming ::Bback :, :: :,: :: :: ::bad : ::, :badly :balance :bar :bargain :: :: :bargaining: :,:, :: :bargains :,based :basic ::,basically :::bear :bearing :bears :behalf :,:,,, :: :: :believe : ::,,: :: ::assumption :basis : :: : : : :, :,, : :, : alleged :, alleging : alleviate : allocution : appropriate allow : : allowed : : : appropriately : : : alternative : area : : alternatives : amendment :,,,, : : : : : :, argue : : arguing : argument : :,,, : : : : : :, : :attention :attorney ::, :: :: ::attorneys ::attorney's :authority :available :: :, Official : : : : :, : : : : :, cases : : : concentrated : :, circumstances concept : : : : : :, concern : : : citizens : :,,, City : : : concerned : concluded : conclusion : confessions confrontation : : confronted : connection :, consent : consented : : : : consequence consequences : : : : claim : :, claiming : clear : : clearly :, client :, close :, coerced : cognizable : : : : : : Columbia : come : : :, : consideration : : comes : considerations : comfort : coming : comment : commit : commits :, committed : : communicate : constitute : Constitution : constitutional : :,, : : : :, : : :, : contention : : : : catch : causal : :, caused : : causes : causing : certain : certainly : : : certainty : cetera : challenge : :, : challenged : challenging : change : changed : charge : : : : charges : check : Chief :, : : :, : :, : : :, :, :, : : : : convictions : : correct : :, : : : couch : counsel : : : :, :, :, : :,,, :,,, :,,, : :, : : : : :, :, : : : :, : : counseled : counsel's : :, : : : : :, : counter-assu... : country : : counts : course : courses : court :, : : :,,, :, : : :, : : :,,, :, : :, : : :,: : : :,:, : : : :,, : breach :, cert : : better : : :, : : : : :,, beyond : binary : bind : binding :, bit : bites : board : Boyce : Boykin : Brady : :, : : : breaches : BREYER : :,,, : : : : :, :, : : Breyer's : brief : : : briefing : brings : broad : burden : : : C C : : call : : car : carbon : care :, case :,, choice : : communicated :, : :,,, choices : :,, choosing : : : :, : : : : : : : :, circumstance : : : : : : communicating : competence : : conceded : chose : CHRIS : : completely : contest : context : :, contrast : convenience : convicted : conviction : :,, Official : : :, : :,, :,,, :, : :, :, : :, : : definitive : doing : draw : : : : : : :, : degree :, driving :, : : : : : :, : : : :, : delay : : : due : : duty : : D.C :, den : Department deals : courtroom : dealt : death : courts : December : : court's : co-counsel : deciding : crime : decision : : : :, : crimes : criminal :, :,,, : decisions : : depend : : dependent : depending : deprivation : deprivations : : : enters : entirely : entitled : : entitlement : entry : : equation : : equivalency:,,equivalent: erase : erroneous : : error :,,: : :, errors : ESQ :,,:,,,essential : essentially : establish : et : events : everybody : evidence : : Ex : exact : exactly : : excluded : excuse :,: exercise : exercised : : exist : expecting : experience : expired : :,expires : explained : EE : : :, earlier : : : :: ::,,,:,,: :: :early :easier :easy : : effective :,:effects :egregious :either : : : ::, : element :EMMETT :: :empowered: ::ended :enforcement:engage :engaged :enter : : : :entered ::, : :, : :, : : :entering :: : : critical :, : :, : :, :, : :,,, :, : :,, : cross-petition : : curiae : : : custodial : D D : : : : date : :,, :,, : : David : day :,, days : : : : :,, : :, : : deal : : : deprive : : : : : despite : deprived : deserved : deeply : defendant : : : : :, : :, : :, : :,,, determination : :, : : :, : :, : : :, :, : :, : determine : determining : : : : : developed : defendant's : Defender : defending : defense :, :, : : : : : defer : : deference : deficiency : : deficient : : : defined : dialogue : difference : : : : : : : different : : : difficult : directions : disarm : discretion : : : discussing : discussion : discussions : Official exposure : : : : : G : Galin : : great : : ground : : hear : extensions : finding :, General :, guarantee : heard : : extent : hearing : : : : : F fact : : : :, : : : factual :, failed : : failing : fails : failure : : : : : : fair :, fairly : fairness : : fallen : far : fate :, favor : : : favorable : : : February : Federal : feel : feeling : fell : felony :, : : : : fifth : : : : figure : file : : : filing : final : finality : :,, find :, : :, : : generous : findings : gentleman : first : : GINSBURG : : :,, : : :,, : : : five : five-part : flexibility : floodgates : force : foreclosed : give : : : : : :, forever :, given : : formal : former :, forth : : go : : gives : : : : forward : : : : : : : : : : : goal : found : : goes : : four : free : : going : : : : Frye's : front : Frye : :, :, : : : : : : : :, : : : : : : :,,, :,, : : : :, : Gonzalez : functional : Gonzalez-Lopezfundamental : : : full : : : : : fundamentally : further : futile :, future : Ggood :,,: : : : : gotten : : grand : granted : : : guaranteed : : guess : : : hearings : held : : help : guilt : : Henderson : : :, : Henderson's :,history : Hill : : :,,: : :, : : : guilty : :, he'll : : : : high : :,, : : : : :,,, :,,, :, : : :, home : : Honor : : :, : :,, :, : :,,, : :, :, : horse : :,, :, : : : : : : guy : guys :,Iidea :identify :impair :impermissibly: : : : : : hoped : :Hhalf : hand : handed : handle : hands : happened : : : : : happens : : : hard : :, : implied ::importance :important :: :: :importantly: ::impossible :inadequacy:inadequate: : included : includes : interim : interrogation Official largely : late : kind :, : kinds : : Laughter : knew : law : : know :, : : : :, :,, : : : :, : : :,, :, : : :, : :,,, key : : : :,, :, :, :, : :,, : :, :, : :,, :, : :, : : :, : :, :,,, : :, :,, :,,, : :, : :, : :, : :,, :,,, :, :, :, : :, : :,,, : : :, : :,, : knows : : :, Koster : : :, : :,,, : :, :, : Justices : knowing :, : :, : :,, : :, knowingly : knowledge : known : : knowledgeable : : : : :,, :,,, :, :, :, :,, :, :, :, : : :, :, : : :, :, : :, : :,, Llab :lack :lacked :lap :lapsed :laws : lawyer :, :, : : : : :, : : lawyers : lead : : learns : leave : leaves : leaving : led : : left :, : legal :,: : less-favorable : letter : : liability : liberty : license :,: lifting : likelihood : limit : limitation : : limited :,:,limiting : little : : logically : long : : : : longer :,: : look : : : : looking : lost :, January :Jefferson :job :judge : : :,,,:, : : ::, : :, :, :,,,: :judge's :judgment ::, : : :,:, : :, : KAGAN :: :,:, : :jury : : justice : : :, :, :, : : :, :, :, KENNEDY: : :,, : :, : : : :,, : : :, : :,,, : :, :,, keep : : :K : interview : introduce : investigation : involuntary : :, :,,, : : involved : issue : : : : : Jjail : : :increase : individual : : : : ineffective : : :, : : : :,, :,,, :,, : : : ineffectiveness : : infinitely : inform : : information : : : informed : infringed : infringement : : initially : injury : inquiry : :,, : insist : insisted : : insists : insofar : instance : intelligent : : : :, intelligently : intending : interaction : interests : Official lot : : : :, Missouri :, : : : : : : : : : lousy : lower : : : M : : : making : : : : : mitigate : modification : : modified : moment : Monday : March : : : : : months : : : material : motion : matter : : : : move : matters : mutual : McMann : myriad : : mean :, : : N: :, N :, : : : : : : : :, nah : nail : nearly : necessarily : means : : : mere : merits : mess : met : mind : : : : minutes : Miranda : misdemeanor : : : : : : :, :, : : necessary : need : : : needs : negotiating : negotiation : : : negotiations :,,,, :,,, : : negotiator : never : : : new : : misinterpreta... night :, : nil : misreading : November missed : missing : : number :, O O : : object : obligation : obvious : : occur :,occurred :: :: :October :odd :offense :,: :offer :, : :,, : : : : : :,: ::, : : :,: :,:,, : :, : : :,:,,,: :offered : : : : offering : offers ::offer's :officer :oh :,:okay : : : :omission :once :,: :: :,: ::one's :open ::,, : : : : :, : : :, :,, : :, :, opinion : opportunities :, opportunity :, : : option : : : : options :, : : : :, :parties ::,,: :party ::, : paying :pen :pending :people ::people's :percent ::perfect :,:,,,perfectly :: :oral : :,, perform :: : : performanceorder : : :,: :: :::, : ordered : orderly : originally : permit :outcome : overcome : :person : : PP : packing : Padilla : page : : :,, panoply : paper : pardon : Parker : part : : : : : : : :, participation : particular : :, particularly personal :petition :,Petitioner ::, :, : : : :Petitioner's :picked :picky :,picture ::place :places :plausible :play :plea :, : :,,,:,, : :,, : : :, : Official :, : present : press : :,, : : : presumably : : : : : : pretty : previous : pre-constituti... practical :, prison : : please : : : : : : plus : point : : : : : : :, : : :, :, pool : position : :, : :,,,, :, : :, : pled : : :,, : :, : :,,, :,,, :, : :,,, : :, :, : : :, : :, :,, :,,, :, :, :,,, : :, :,, :,,, :,,, :,,,,, :,,, :,, :,, : :, : :, : :,, : :, :,,, :,, : : : potential : potentiality : : : : :, : : possibility : possible : : pre : precedent : Precisely : predates : prejudice : : : : : : : : : : :, : : : :,, :, :, prejudiced : : : : prejudicial : : plead : : : : : :, : : : :, : : pleaded : pleading : : pleads : : : : pleas : :,, preliminary : Premo : : professionally : : :, :, profit : : : preparation :, prepares : : preparing : prerogative : prescribed : : pre-sentence : principle : prior : : : probability : :, : probably : : probation : :, problem : : :,, : : : proof :,, proper : :, properly : : : : proposition : prosecution : : : prosecutor : : :, :, : : :, : :, : :, :, : :,,, : : prosecutors : : : prosecutor's :, protections :, prove : : : provide : : : provided : : : : provides : : procedural : Public : proceedings punish : punishment : process : : : : :, product : professional :, : put : : : : : putting : : puzzled : p.m : Qqualify :quality : Queener :: :,,: :,:,, :, : :, : :,, :, : :,,:,, :,,, :,, :,, :, :, :,,:,, :, : :,, :, : :, : :,, : question : : :, :, : : :, :, : : : :,,, : :: :: :,: ::, :, questions ::, quote :,RR : Official :, : : :, :, : :,,, :,, :,,, :, :, :,,, :, :,, : :,, :,, : :, rights :, :,, : :,, :,, : : rise : risk :, ROBERTS : :, : : : : : :, :, :, : : room :, rule : : run : SS : : satisfies :satisfy :Saturday ::saying : : : :,:,,,:, : : :says : : : ::SCALIA ::,,: :,: :, : : :, : : : : :, :,, :,, : :, :, : : :, : schedule : scheduled : scheduling : : scope : search : : : second :, : : : secure : see :,, : :, : seek : send : sense : : : : sent : sentence : : : : :,: : sentenced : : : sentencing: :,: :,:, : :, set : : : : : :,: : setting : : raised : : ramifications : range : rational : :, reach : read :, reading : readings : ready : real : reality : really : : : : : : : : : : :, : reason : : : : : reduced : : refute : regain :, : : required : : : requirement : regarding : requires : regardless : reinstate : reiterated : reserve : reject : respect : : : research :, : :, rejected : : :, Respectfully : relevant : :, : :, : : : Respondent : : : : responsibility reliability : reliance :, rest : : :, relief : rely : remade : remaining : rests :, : : : result : : :, : : : : : : reasonable : : :, : :, remains : : : : reasonably : reasons : : : REBUTTAL : : recall : received : recognized : : : recognizing : : recommend : : record :,, : : : :,, : records : : : remedied : remedies : resulted : results : retract : retreat : remedy :, retry : : :, : :, return : : :, returned : reversed : : :, remember : rendered : renew : : : revoked :, : repeatedly : replead : reporting : representation : : :, : require : : : : re-articulated : : re-articulating right : : : :, : :, : : : : soup :, special : : suggest : specifically suffered : sufficient : : shock : : show : : : : :, : :,,, :, showing : shown : : : side : simply : : : : sitting : situation : : : : : : : : : Sixth :,, :, : : : : : :, slammed : slam-dunk : : snap : snapped : : solely : solemnly : Solicitor : somebody : soon : : sorry : : : : : : sort : : sorts : Sotomayor : :,,, :, : :, : : :, : spread : stage :, :, : :, :, :,,, :,,, :, stages : :, stake :, standard : :,, : :, : : : : : : standards : : :, State : : : : : :, : :, :,, stated : statement : States :,, : : : :, statute : stood : Strickland : : : : :, : struck :, subject : submitted : : : subsequent : substantive : succeeding : Official tell : : : : telling : tells : term : terms :, : : : test :, : : : testify : : Thank :, :, : : :, thing : : : things : : : : think :, : : : : : : : : : :, : :, : :, : : :, thinking : third : thought : : : : : : three : : till : time : : : :, : : : : : : :,, : : : : today : : told :, : : : Tollett : : : tough : : tougher : : track : trader : treatment : trial :, :,,, :, : :, : : : :,,,, :,,, :,,, :, : : :,, :,,, :,, :,, : :, : :, : :, : : :, : : trials : tried : trilogy : true : : : : truly : truth : turn : : :, : turned : : : turns : two :, : : : : : :, : two-part : : : suggested : suggesting : super : support : supporting : : : suppose : : : : : : : :, : : : suppress : Supreme :, : : sure : : : :, surely : : suspicious : synonymous : system : : : : :, TT :,table :: :,: :take : : : :,: :,:,,:taken : :, : :: ::,takes : : talking :technical : Official : : : : : : : : :, :,,: : -day : : : : : type : U ultimately : unaware : : : uncounseled : uncover : undermines : understand : : : : : : understanding : unfair : : : : : unfairness : :, unfavorable : United :,, : : unknowing : :, :,, unnecessarily unprofessional : : validly : : view : : : : : :,, : we've : : viewed : views : : : violation :, willing : : : :,,,: :, : :, : : : violations : wipes : : : voluntariness : : withdraw : : :, : voluntary : withdrawing:, : :,, : withdrawn : : Wwait : waive :, : : : : : witnesses : : words : : work :,workable : waived : : : :, : waiver :, world : : : worried : :, : wouldn't : : :, : : : : waiving : walk : want : : wrongly : :, : :, : : wrong : : : :, : x :, X -year : : :, :,- : : (b) :: : : : :th : : : : : : : : : : : : th : : th :, : : : : :,:rd : :, : : : :th :, :unusual :, unwind : Washington : : : : unwinding : wasn't : : : way : : use : : : : V v : : : valid : : : validity : : went : :, : : weren't : We'll : we're :, :,,, Y : :Yang : : :,,:, :, :, : :,,, -year : : :,, : :, : :,,:, : years : : 