Official IN THE SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - xCURT MESSERSCHMIDT, ET AL., : Petitioners : No. - v. :BRENDA MILLENDER, AS EXECUTOR OF :THE ESTATE OF AUGUSTA MILLENDER, :DECEASED, ET AL. :- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - x Washington, D.C. Monday, December , The above-entitled matter came on for oralargument before the Supreme Court of the United Statesat : a.m.APPEARANCES:TIMOTHY T. COATES, ESQ., Los Angeles, California; for Petitioners.SRI SRINIVASAN, ESQ., Principal Deputy Solicitor General, Department of Justice, Washington, D.C.; for United States, as amicus curiae, in support of Petitioners.PAUL R.Q. WOLFSON, ESQ., Washington, D.C.; for Respondents. Official C O N T E N T SORAL ARGUMENT OF PAGETIMOTHY T. COATES, ESQ. On behalf of the Petitioners ORAL ARGUMENT OFSRI SRINIVASAN, ESQ. On behalf of the United States, as amicus curiae, in support of the PetitionersORAL ARGUMENT OFPAUL R.Q. WOLFSON, ESQ. On behalf of the Respondents REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OFTIMOTHY T. COATES, ESQ. On behalf of the Petitioners Official P R O C E E D I N G S (: a.m.) CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: We'll hear argumentnext in Case -, Messerschmidt v. Millender. Mr. Coates. ORAL ARGUMENT OF TIMOTHY T. COATES ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONERS MR. COATES: Mr. Chief Justice, and may itplease the Court: In Malley v. Briggs and UnitedStates v. Leon, this Court set forth a very highstandard for denying qualified immunity in the civilcontext or suppressing evidence in the criminal contextunder circumstances where a police officer has procureda warrant that is subsequently determined to be invalid. Specifically, the Court held that theinitial magistrate's determination is -- is entitled togreat deference, and that you'll go behind that only incases where the officer falsified information or omittedexculpatory information, where the affidavit wasbare-bones, or there was some indication that thejudicial officer did not perform the function, and thena catch-all provision, where the warrant was so lackingin indicia of probable cause that no reasonable officer Officialcould even submit it for a magistrate's determination.And specifically in Malley, the Court said it had to bethe actions of an officer that was plainly incompetentor knowingly violating the law. This case arises from a Ninth Circuitdecision that we submit does not apply the Court'sstandards, under circumstances where the officersubmitted, far from a bare-bones affidavit, but a highlydetailed, factual affidavit that we submit providedprobable cause for the search or at least, under theCourt's qualified immunity jurisprudence, a reasonableofficer could believe that the warrant had probablecause. CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: There -- I supposeone new feature of the case is the fact that theseofficers submitted the affidavit to their superiors, whowere -- were attorneys. MR. COATES: Correct. There -- CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Have we -- have weaddressed that in a prior case? MR. COATES: I don't know that the Court --the Court has -- in, I believe, the exclusion context Ithink I have seen it. I can't recall the case, but Ibelieve it has, and the circuit courts certainly havetalked about that as an indicia of good faith, the Officialofficer being willing to submit his work to someone elseto review it. So -- JUSTICE SCALIA: But it isn't good faithhere; that's the problem, that we don't have a goodfaith test. We -- we have a test that goes beyond goodfaith. Even if the officer is in good faith, accordingto the test we've set forth, if he's so stupid that --that he -- he executes a warrant that no reasonableofficer could think was correct, he's -- he's in thepot, right? MR. COATES: Well, that -- that's the testthat the Court has set out. But it's a high test,plainly incompetent or knowingly violating the law. AndI think what these are additional factual circumstancesthat show at least the officer is trying to be careful,that this isn't something that's been -- been tossedoff. JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Counsel, I thought inthe Leon case that, in fact, just like the claim in thiscase, that the affidavit was submitted to supervisors,and the Court created the Leon test in spite of that.So, to say do we have a case on point, Leon itself is onpoint. We created the test in the face of supervisors'review. You're not actually, are you, arguing aNuremberg defense now? Official MR. COATES: No. I'm just saying that -- JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: That -- that simplybecause supervisors decide, that it's okay, that that -- MR. COATES: No. JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: -- exculpates someonefrom responsibility? MR. COATES: Certainly not. And as I say,this comes up in the qualified immunity contextrepeatedly among the circuit courts. They've recognizedit as a -- as a factor. But it's not dispositive, notby any mean. I agree with -- I agree with that, YourHonor. JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: All right. Then let'sgo to the other two ways that I think you're asking usto overrule our precedent. The first is the usingsubjective information that a police officer knows buthasn't disclosed in the warrant. I'm having a littlebit of difficulty understanding how an entire warrantregime that presumes that the magistrate has allpertinent information -- and that's why you would be letoff the hook -- how you can excuse a police officer whenhe doesn't place that information in front of themagistrate. MR. COATES: The way that has generally comeup has not been in the validity of the warrant for Officialpurposes of the Fourth Amendment, but in terms ofqualified immunity for the officer or exclusion of theevidence under -- or not -- or nonsuppression, rather,under the good faith exception. And it's whether theofficer, in light of the totality of the circumstances,might not have recognized that the warrant was deficientif the warrant otherwise isn't -- isn't bare-bones. And I think we -- Leon itself in footnote incorporates the Harlow standard of totality ofcircumstances. JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Tell me how, this case,the bare-bone affidavit was sufficient? All it says isthat this defendant is a member of a gang, but when thepolice officer is questioned, he's asked whether thiscrime at issue had any connection to his gangrelationship, and the answer was no. So, how is therequest in the warrant to search for all gang-relatedindicia anything more than the general warrant that ourFounding Fathers in part passed the Fourth Amendmentagainst? MR. COATES: Oh, I mean, this is not per sea gang crime -- JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: This is almost like -- MR. COATES: Without -- without a doubt,it's not a -- what we consider a gangland crime, one Officialgang member against the other. It's a domestic assaultby a gang member on his girlfriend with a sawed-offshotgun in public, right after police officers that werethere to protect her had left. So, it's notgang-related in that sense. But I don't think that thegang membership is irrelevant to the investigation inthis case. You know, as we note, and I think it'sfairly recognized, gang members have means to procureand use weapons beyond that of ordinary people. JUSTICE GINSBURG: So, if you have a gangmember and the crime has absolutely nothing to do withgang membership -- that I think is the case here; it's adomestic assault -- as long as you're a gang member,then every warrant can say search for all gang-relatedinformation? That's essentially your position, isn'tit? MR. COATES: No, it isn't, because it'salways a fact-specific inquiry. The Court's made thatclear in Illinois v. Gates and for qualified immunity inAnderson v. Creighton. We're -- JUSTICE GINSBURG: But you -- you said thisis domestic assault. There is no gang activity involvedin that assault, right? MR. COATES: Well, the gentleman is using asawed-off shotgun, which is a weapon associated with -- Officialwith gangs. I don't think it's a stretch for an officerto think that there might be some connection to themanner in which he procured that weapon, might hide thatweapon -- JUSTICE GINSBURG: So, anyone who has aweapon and is a member of a gang then can be -- therecan be a search for any and all weapons and materialrelated to weapons? MR. COATES: Well, it depends on thecircumstances of the crime that you are investigating.Here we have an assault, we have a domestic assault withindications that the gentleman intends to continue it.And, indeed, that's why the warrant is for all weapons,because it would make little sense to say you can go andyou can find a sawed-off shotgun -- JUSTICE GINSBURG: I'm -- I'm on to the partabout all gang-related activity, when the crime hasnothing to do with the -- with the gang. Let's -- let'sstick to that. Then guns is another issue. But thissaid warrant to search for any and all gang-relateditems? MR. COATES: Correct, Your Honor. But thepoint is that's to be used to possibly tie Mr. Bowen toany weapon that was found. It's identificationinformation. If they found, for example, the sawed-off Officialshotgun there and his gang colors with his gang moniker,that would certainly help to tie him to that shotgun. JUSTICE GINSBURG: But they didn't need totie him to the shotgun. They had photographs of himwith the shotgun. MR. COATES: They have some evidence, butyou don't have to stop just because you have someevidence. I mean, you're entitled to build your case asstrong as you -- JUSTICE GINSBURG: What -- what do you needmore than here he is with his gun? The defendanthimself and his gun? I mean, what -- MR. COATES: Well, if you found the actualshotgun there wrapped in his -- in his gang -- gangcolors with his gang moniker, I mean, it would make aneven stronger case. And I also note, say you find a.-caliber pistol wrapped in his gang colors with hisgang monikers. I don't -- JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: What do we do with theofficer's testimony when he said -- "Did you have anyreason to believe there were any more weapons in thehouse?" He said, "No." What -- when an officer saysthat, why would then he think that he has completelicense to go and ask for a warrant that's looking formore guns, when there's only evidence of him possessing Officialone? MR. COATES: Because, again, the nature ofgang membership is that gangs -- JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: So, you're answering --you're answering Justice Ginsburg by saying that anytime a gang member commits any crime, the police areentitled to seek a warrant that permits the search foranything they have in their home that relates to theirgang membership and to -- to guns? MR. COATES: No, because I think it depends.Here we have a crime that definitely involves a gun,involves an illegal gun -- JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: That did not involve --by the officer's admission and your own, that wasn'tgang-related. MR. COATES: The assault, correct. JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: The assault -- MR. COATES: But the manner in which heprocures the weapon, might dispose of the weapon, andnature of the weapon itself -- JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: But wait a minute. Thathas nothing to do with the gang, unless you're sayingthat you had proof that the gang did something illegallyin helping him procure the weapon. What information didyou have to suggest that? Official MR. COATES: Again, the nature of asawed-off shotgun; it's an illegal weapon in and ofitself. JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Counsel -- CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Whose house -- whosehouse was this? MR. COATES: Augusta Millender's house, Ms.Millender's home. CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: So, it was not thedefendant's house? MR. COATES: Correct. No, he was a fosterson who had come back to stay. JUSTICE BREYER: To what -- JUSTICE KAGAN: Mr. Coates -- I'm sorry. JUSTICE BREYER: To what extent are wesupposed to take things that aren't in the affidavit orthe warrant itself as relevant? I mean, the one thingthat bothers me as I read the affidavit, it doesn't saysomeone else is living in the house. At least I didn'tsee that. And then the statement that JusticeSotomayor said, well, that's later on in a deposition.So -- so, if I were the magistrate sitting there and Iread the -- the affidavit, I might think I did havecause, at least it's close maybe, but -- to allow them Officialto search for all the guns in the house. I might thinkthey all belonged to him. And, anyway, I might think hethought that this could be used to -- other guns couldbe used to go after her again. But when I read he says, oh, I had no causeat all for thinking that -- why isn't that the end ofit, if we're supposed to take that into account? MR. COATES: Well, I mean, again, I think,as he sets forth his experience as a gang officer andthe manner in which gangs dispose of, procure weapons -- JUSTICE BREYER: But he didn't say muchabout the gang. MR. COATES: No. JUSTICE BREYER: I'm asking you a specificquestion. I mean, if I were supposed to take intoaccount his statement, I had no reason -- to paraphraseit a little -- for thinking that any of these guns,other guns, were going to be used for any purpose that'sillegal -- if he'd said that afterwards, if I take thatinto account, I say, why isn't that the end of the case?He had no cause to ask for the other guns, period. Now,that was -- MR. COATES: Well -- JUSTICE BREYER: -- the question, I thinkroughly, that you were being asked, and I would like to Officialhear the answer. I thought the answer would be: Idon't have the right to take it into account. Now, do Ior don't I? MR. COATES: Well, I mean, it's an -- it'san objective standard. It's what a reasonable officerwould do with the facts before him. JUSTICE BREYER: Wait. Before him? MR. COATES: Yes. JUSTICE BREYER: Or before the -- is -- do Ilook at the affidavits and the warrant, or do I alsolook at things that are in neither of those documentsbut were in the officer's head? MR. COATES: For purposes of determining theFourth Amendment validity of the warrant, the Court hassaid you -- you look at the warrant. Under thequalified immunity test and in the criminal suppressioncontext of good faith, you can go outside that and lookat the totality of what the officer knew and, if inlight of what he knew, whether he could have believed itwas so. JUSTICE BREYER: All right. So, if I lookat whether he was in good faith, if he has any trainingat all, I would guess that if he thought that there isno -- I don't remember the exact words -- no reason, noreason to believe there would be any weapons in the Officialhouse, no reason to believe there would be any handgunsin the house, and then I say, I want a warrant to searchfor handguns in the house, it looks like you're askingfor a warrant to search for that for which you have noreason to believe it's there. Now, that I would havethought was not good faith. That was contrary to theFourth Amendment. Why isn't it? MR. COATES: Because you -- you still have,under (a)() of the California Penal Code, the --the ability to search for items that might be used withthe intent to commit another crime. And I think if thiswas -- JUSTICE BREYER: Even though you can searcha person's house -- why don't I search the person'shouse for an atomic bomb? And I say: Why are you doingthat? He says: I have no reason to believe it's there.But that is a constitutional search? MR. COATES: Well, again, I think -- goingback here in terms of -- stepping back from good faithas opposed to probable cause, I don't think it'sirrelevant that this guy is a gang member. I don'tthink it's unusual to think that, while you might knowspecifically whether there's a handgun or not -- JUSTICE SCALIA: Excuse me. Why are yougoing back to good faith? I mean, that's -- Official MR. COATES: Well -- JUSTICE SCALIA: -- that's what I think isthe problem with this case. If it's a good faith test,you come out with one result. But the test we'veexpressed is not good faith. This -- this policeofficer could have been in the best of faith, but ifhe's a very bad police officer, he's in the soup, right? MR. COATES: Yes. JUSTICE SCALIA: We don't have a good faithtest for this purpose. MR. COATES: Sure. But a -- but thestandard is plainly incompetent or knowingly violatingthe law, and I think -- again, there's enough detail inthere that I don't think it is illogical to say there'ssome connection between gang membership and thepossibility or even the fair probability that there areother weapons in a residence. CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Of course -- JUSTICE SCALIA: So, whenever -- I'm sorry. CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: I was just going tosay, of course you're making the case somewhat harderfor yourself because the issue here is whether it wasreasonable for him to say let me check and see what mysuperiors think about this and then, after that review,for him to say let's see what the magistrate thinks Officialabout this, right? MR. COATES: Correct. It's a -- it's afurther step back, because it's whether it's evenreasonable for him to ask the magistrate for adetermination -- JUSTICE BREYER: What cause is there tothink -- what cause is there to think that the gang gunswill be used to commit a crime? MR. COATES: This is a gentleman who hadjust perpetrated an assault with a sawed-off shotgun.He didn't make -- specify, in terms of his threat, thathe would confine any further attack to a sawed-offshotgun. I just don't think it's a stretch of logic foran officer to believe that if he found a .-caliberpistol there wrapped in gang colors that he should beable to seize it to prevent a future attack. JUSTICE SCALIA: But the -- the warrantdidn't just authorize, you know, firearms wrapped ingang colors. It allowed him to search for any evidenceof gang membership, right? MR. COATES: Correct. JUSTICE SCALIA: But what possible purposecould that serve? MR. COATES: Again, because the evidence ofgang -- indicia of gang membership could be used to tie Officialhim to things in the residence that you might find,absolutely. I mean, it's an identifying characteristicof Mr. Bowen. JUSTICE SCALIA: If they were wrapped in it,yes. But we know he's a gang member. MR. COATES: Sure. JUSTICE SCALIA: So, all that the finding ofgang membership decals or whatever they wear -- all thatwould show is, indeed, this guy was a gang member. MR. COATES: And present -- JUSTICE SCALIA: And even then -- MR. COATES: Well -- excuse me, Your Honor.And present in that particular premises, it might showownership or control, might show access to the weapons.It's not irrelevant to that. JUSTICE SCALIA: But they -- they knew hewas in that premise. I mean, that -- I really don'tunderstand how you can possibly search for indicia ofgang membership. When you know the man's a gang member,so what? MR. COATES: Well, again, Your Honor, itties him closer -- it shows him there at their property.If we see a photograph -- JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: But tell me something.There's people in this house. There's people in Officialthis house, and as I understand it from the questioning,they also knew other gang members were there. So, evenif they found gang colors, did they tell the -- themagistrate that -- what would that prove when there'smultiple members in the house? MR. COATES: Well, you could find, again,gang -- indicia of gang membership as to himindividually with his moniker. JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Well, but it's notlimited to that. MR. COATES: Well, correct. And he's also amember of several gangs. So, you could find uniquecolors for one of his gangs and not for the others. JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: What does that have todo with anything other than a general search -- MR. COATES: Because, again, it's evidencethat could -- JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: -- a general search inthe hope of finding evidence of other crimes? MR. COATES: No, because it -- JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: That's what it soundslike. MR. COATES: No, because it would tie him toanything found in that residence. Again, if you found a. caliber pistol -- Official JUSTICE GINSBURG: What about the provisionfor any photographs that depict evidence of criminalactivity? That seems to me as general as you can get.Photographs depicting evidence of criminal activity. MR. COATES: That actually is in the sectionthat deals with indicia of gang membership. It has beencarved out by Respondents here for the first time as aseparate category. I note it was not argued down belowthat way; it was not viewed at the district court thatway; it was not viewed by the circuit judges that way. And I do have to say that we're sitting herelooking at judges and, like, attorneys have lookedat this, and they've never brought that out separately.And now we're saying that should have jumped out to theofficers separately. I think we cite case law sayingthat you should interpret that within the context of theentire provision, which is the indicia of gangmembership provision. And if I may, I'd like to reserve thebalance of my time for rebuttal. CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, counsel. Mr. Srinivasan. ORAL ARGUMENT OF SRI SRINIVASAN ON BEHALF OF THE UNITED STATES, AS AMICUS CURIAE, IN SUPPORT OF THE PETITIONERS Official MR. SRINIVASAN: Thank you,Mr. Chief Justice, and may it please the Court: When an officer follows the favored practiceunder the Fourth Amendment of obtaining a warrant from aneutral magistrate before conducting a search, theofficer in all but the most narrow circumstances canrely on the magistrate's independent determination ofprobable cause, without fear -- JUSTICE KAGAN: Mr. Srinivasan, there aretwo categories of materials here. One is the search forother guns. The other is the search for anythingrelating to gang membership. If we think that those twocategories present different questions, if we think thatone is more beyond the bounds than another, that theofficer might have qualified immunity for, let's say,the guns but not the evidence of gang membership, whatwould happen in this case at that point? MR. SRINIVASAN: Well, I think one of thequestions that would arise is whether the one as towhich you thought there was a problem would expand thescope in a meaningful way, because if -- let's take YourHonor's hypothesis that there's less of a reason to beconcerned about the firearms-related aspects of thewarrant than the gang-related parts of the warrant; thenthe question would arise whether you would have a Fourth OfficialAmendment violation in the first place, because if thegang-related parts of the warrant didn't expand thescope of the search in such a way that would implicateindependent privacy interests, there wouldn't be aFourth Amendment problem with that aspect of thewarrant. And, therefore, there -- you wouldn't have aqualified immunity issue for sure. JUSTICE SCALIA: And what does that dependon, whether you would look for the indicia of gangmemberships in places where you wouldn't look for guns;is that it? MR. SRINIVASAN: That's right. You look --you look at the two aspects of the warrant, and you askwhether the second one, which is hypothesized to be theproblematic one, would allow you to search in places orsearch with more intensity than the first -- JUSTICE SCALIA: Well, if you're looking forphotographs that show gang membership, I guess you couldlook through photograph albums. You wouldn't reallylook there for guns, would you? MR. SRINIVASAN: Well, but -- no. I thinkthe relevant language is at page of the JointAppendix. That's what sets forth the two paragraphs atissue. And the first paragraph, which Justice Kagansupposes doesn't raise a problem -- and I'll engage that Officialassumption -- it provides not only for searches of allfirearms, but it provides, and we think legitimately,for searches of any receipts or paperwork showing thepurchase, ownership, or possession of the handguns beingsought. And so, if -- and paperwork certainly includesphotographs, because if you find photographs of anindividual carrying a particular firearm, that's goodevidence. And so, photographic evidence is within thescope of the first paragraph, not just the second. Andso, it does raise the question of whether the secondparagraph increases the scope. The other point I'd raise in this respect isthat, in the second paragraph itself, the anchorsentence in some respects in the second paragraph is thesecond sentence, which discusses not gang-relatedindicia in particular but articles of personal propertytending to establish the identity of persons in controlof the premise or premises, writ large. And note -- andthat provision has not been seen to have a -- have aproblem associated with it thus far. The district courtthought it was okay. The court of appeals, at page aof the petition appendix, seemed to assume it was okay.And that's understandable because there are a legion ofcases that support those sorts of provisions -- JUSTICE ALITO: There's something -- Official MR. SRINIVASAN: -- including the Ewing casecited by the majority below. JUSTICE ALITO: There's something verystrange about the rule that we are applying here. Awarrant was issued by a judge of the superior court;isn't that right? MR. SRINIVASAN: Yes, I believe so. JUSTICE ALITO: And we're -- so, that judge,who is a lawyer and was appointed as a judge andpresumably has some familiarity with the FourthAmendment, found that there was probable cause to searchfor all of these things. And now we're asking whether areasonable police officer who is not a lawyer andcertainly is not a judge should have been able to seethat this call that was made by a judge was not onlywrong but so wrong that it -- you couldn't reasonablythink that the judge might be correct. Is there someway to phrase this -- if this rule is to be retained inany form, is there some way to phrase it so that it isnarrowed appropriately? MR. SRINIVASAN: Well, I -- I think theCourt has attempted to do that in Malley and Leonitself, because it has made clear that in the main, inall but the most narrow circumstances, where amagistrate does find the existence of probable cause, Officialthe court need not engage in any searching inquiry todetermine that qualified immunity is appropriate -- JUSTICE SCALIA: But the most narrowcircumstance is defined as a circumstance in which noreasonable police officer could have thought the warrantwas correct. Why don't we adopt a good -- MR. SRINIVASAN: Well -- JUSTICE SCALIA: -- a good faith test forthis as we do in other -- in other -- MR. SRINIVASAN: Well, I think in somesense, Justice Scalia, you have two -- in response tothe two parts of your question. First of all, indefining what is objectively unreasonable in thissituation, the Court has used some pretty stronglanguage. In Malley, it spoke in terms of a magistratewho's grossly incompetent. And in Leon, it spoke of -- JUSTICE SCALIA: A policeman. Policeman. MR. SRINIVASAN: No, it was speaking of amagistrate actually, and not the officers. Because thepoint is that in order to find that officers are liablein this situation, the officers would have to be so surethat probable cause is lacking that only a grosslyincompetent magistrate could sign off on the probablecause assessment. So, it used gross incompetence withrespect to the magistrate, which illustrates the degree Officialto which the standard is heightened in this context. And in terms of whether good faithprinciples come into play in the qualified immunitycontext, what the Court said in Malley is that the samestandard for objective -- of reasonableness that governsin the good faith context for suppression purposes alsogoverns in the qualified immunity context under .And so, I think there is room to import into thequalified immunity context these principles of goodfaith, like, for example, Mr. Chief Justice, thequestion of whether the officers in question askedsuperiors for their assessment of whether there'sprobable cause. And in Sheppard, which was a suppressioncase, but in Sheppard, at page -- and of theopinion, the Court specifically made reference to thefact that the officer in that case had asked for aprobable cause assessment -- JUSTICE SCALIA: Well, I don't like thismishmash. Look, it's either good faith or it's --however good his faith was, however well he showed hisgood faith by checking with his superiors or what not,if he made -- if he made an incompetent decision, it'sincompetent. And we should not mix the two, it seems tome. Official MR. SRINIVASAN: Well, that -- I mean,certainly I don't want to urge any -- anything upon theCourt that would tend to water down the standard in thesuppression context, but the only point I'd add to this,Justice Scalia, is that when you're looking at it fromthe perspective of a reasonable officer who's trying toassess whether he should go forward and ask forassessment of probable cause from the magistrate, oneconsideration that seems natural to take into account iswhat actions the officer has taken, not just the quantumof proof that the officer has put in the affidavit butwhat actions has he taken. Has he asked for a -- has heasked his supervisor -- JUSTICE SCALIA: That would be wonderful ifthe test was, was this -- did this officer know thatthis was a bad affidavit and was acting in bad faith inexecuting it? If that was the test, then indeed thefact that he had checked with his superiors and all ofthat good stuff would -- would have some relevance. MR. SRINIVASAN: The test as outlined by theCourt in Malley is whether it's objectively reasonablefor the officer to rely on the magistrate's assessmentof probable cause. JUSTICE KAGAN: Mr. Srinivasan -- JUSTICE GINSBURG: I though the test was "so Officiallacking in indicia of probable cause as to renderofficial belief in its existence unreasonable." MR. SRINIVASAN: It -- the Court did saythat, Your Honor, and the Court put the formulation in anumber of respects in Malley itself. It said, "We holdthat the" -- this is at page : "We hold that thesame standard of objective reasonableness that weapplied in the context of a suppression hearing in Leondefines the qualified immunity accorded an officer whoserequest for a warrant allegedly caused anunconstitutional arrest." And I think that's where the Court then goeson and articulates what Your Honor just quoted. Butthen the Court later says: "In Leon" -- and this is atpage -- this is at page : "In Leon, we stated that'our objective faith' -- 'good faith inquiry is confinedto the objectively ascertainable question of whether areasonably well-trained officer would have known thatthe search was illegal despite the magistrate'sauthorization.' The analogous question in this case,"and it goes on to speak about the analogous question. JUSTICE KAGAN: I guess the question,Mr. Srinivasan, is, do you think that the current test,that the test as currently formulated, is sufficientlyprotective of police officers? Or do you think that we Officialneed to change the test in order to give police officersthe protection they need? MR. SRINIVASAN: We think if the currenttest is applied properly, it's sufficiently protective.And really the question is how it's applied. And inthis case it was applied in -- in a way that I think isnot sufficiently protective of police officers. JUSTICE SCALIA: Of course, you could saythat about any test, you know? If you apply itprotectively, it will protect. MR. SRINIVASAN: You could -- JUSTICE SCALIA: And if you don't apply itprotectively, it won't protect. CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Did you -- JUSTICE SCALIA: I'd like a test that, youknow, that protects when it ought to and doesn't protectwhen it ought not. CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Did you say applyprotectively or correctly? MR. SRINIVASAN: Applied -- well, I meant tosay applied correctly. CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Okay. MR. SRINIVASAN: If applied correctly -- Iapologize if I misspoke. If applied correctly, itshould sufficiently protect -- Official JUSTICE KENNEDY: In the background of thiscase is -- is this question: A suspect has a weapon.He flees. As a general rule, do you think that warrantscan say that when they search the home or the placewhere this person is likely to be, they can seize allweapons? Just as a general rule? MR. SRINIVASAN: No -- not necessarily as ageneral rule, Justice Kennedy. It has to becontext-specific. And here you had a lot more thanthat. You had an individual who had perpetrated anattempted murder, who was a known member of a violentgang, who had -- who had perpetrated physical assaultsagainst this victim before, and who had directlythreatened the victim that he would murder her if sheever went to the police and that he was going to killher. JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: You keep adding factsthat weren't -- JUSTICE KENNEDY: So -- so, the test iswhether or not he is likely to commit another crime? MR. SRINIVASAN: Well, that's the testthat -- JUSTICE KENNEDY: I mean, that's -- Ithought the Petitioner said -- I didn't have the time tointerrupt -- that under California law, they can search Officialfor anything where he's likely to commit another crime. MR. SRINIVASAN: Yes, this is a veryimportant point, Justice Kennedy. At page of thejoint appendix, the language of the relevant Californiastatute is set forth. The California provision issection (a)() of the California Penal Code, and itauthorizes a search for and seizure of items wherethey're possessed by a person with the intent to usethem as a means of committing a public offense. Andthat's the provision that was invoked this very warrant.And these -- and that -- CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Finish yoursentence. MR. SRINIVASAN: Just the one sentence.That provision is by no means an outlier. It's inFederal Rule of Criminal Procedure (c)(), and it's inthe Model Penal Code of Pre-Arraignment Procedure atsection ., subsection ()(c). Thank you. CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, counsel. Mr. Wolfson. ORAL ARGUMENT OF PAUL R.Q. WOLFSON ON BEHALF OF THE RESPONDENTS MR. WOLFSON: Thank you, Mr. Chief Justice,and may it please the Court: Official In Malley v. Briggs, this Court ruled thatpolice officers do not have immunity for seeking asearch warrant when the warrant application is solacking in indicia of probable cause as to renderofficial belief in its existence unreasonable. That -- CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, Malleyinvolved a search warrant based solely on a wiretap inwhich an unknown individual discussed drug use at aparty. That was all. It seems to me there's a lot moreinformation here. MR. WOLFSON: Well, in -- Malley involved amistake as to who the person under suspicion was who wasmentioned in the -- in the wiretap. But the argumentwas made in Malley that is exactly the argument that ismade here, which is that the police -- it -- one wantsto encourage the police to seek warrants from themagistrates, and it would be -- and it would be -- itwould be undesirable if the police were not giveneffectively absolute immunity when they seek a warrantfrom a magistrate, except, of course, when they -- whenthey lie, which is a separate question. CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Here you had apolice officer who assembled information he had,truthful information, in the affidavit, submitted it tohis superiors, who were lawyers. Then it was submitted Officialto the magistrate, who was a judge. And what you haveto say, it seems to me, is that a reasonably competentofficer -- not objective good faith or anything likethat -- a reasonable -- reasonably competent officerwould say: You know, I know the lawyers in the officesaid this was okay and I know the judge said it wasokay, but I know more than them; I know not only thatit's not okay, but it's so clearly not okay that Ishouldn't have qualified immunity. That seems to me a pretty heavy burden toput on -- put on the cop on the beat. MR. WOLFSON: Mr. Chief Justice, I don'tthink -- I don't think there is any question that in thegreat majority of cases, officers who seek warrants frommagistrates will be immune. And the Court made clear inMalley that it does happen that officers make mistakes,good faith mistakes, as to whether a particular set offacts amounts to probable cause, and in that contextwhen there is a good faith mistake, the officers willhave immunity. But the Court also stressed that officersmust minimize the risk of Fourth Amendment violations byexercising reasonable professional judgment in applyingfor search warrants. And so, the Court ruled that anofficer will not be immune if a "reasonably well-trained Officialofficer," which is the term the Court used, would nothave believed that the -- that the warrant affidavitestablished probable cause. Now -- JUSTICE ALITO: Now, is it the case herethat a reasonably well-trained officer would not --would understand that this warrant was defective inauthorizing a search for guns other than the shotgun inquestion, when a provision of the California Penal Codesays that a search warrant may be issued to seize itemsintended for use in committing a crime? MR. WOLFSON: A reasonable -- that areasonable well-trained officer would not have soughtthe search warrant. I don't think the California PenalCode provision really adds anything to the rest of thecase, because it says that you may seek items that areintended to be used in a crime, but you still have toknow -- you still have to have probable cause to believethat there are such items. And so, the cases -- JUSTICE ALITO: Well, you have your clientwho has discharged a sawed-off shotgun at his formergirlfriend in an attempt to kill her. And he -- he isknown to be a member of a violent gang, and he hasthreatened to kill her. And so, a reasonable policeofficer would -- could not think, well, he might havesome other guns, and he -- and there would be an intent Officialto use those in the commission of the crime that he hasthreatened to commit. MR. WOLFSON: Well, Mr. Bowen is not ourclient, Justice Alito. Our clients are -- JUSTICE ALITO: I'm sorry. Excuse me. Mr.Bowen -- MR. WOLFSON: No, but this is -- but this isan important point. Our clients are the innocent familythat lives in the house where-- JUSTICE ALITO: Well, that was just -- thatwas a misstatement on my part. MR. WOLFSON: No, I understand, but -- but Iwant to -- JUSTICE ALITO: They could not think thatabout Mr. Bowen? MR. WOLFSON: But I want to make the pointthat not only do the police have to have probable causeto believe that there is such an item, they also have tohave probable cause to believe that it will be found inthe place that they propose to search. I mean, probablecause -- JUSTICE ALITO: But the -- all right. Itwas found that there was probable cause to believe thathe was living in these premises; isn't that correct?And you're not contesting that. Official MR. WOLFSON: Well, we are contesting that.We're contesting their -- JUSTICE ALITO: You're not -- it's not anissue before us. MR. WOLFSON: It's not an issue here. TheNinth Circuit decided the case on the assumption thatthere was probable cause to believe that Mr. Bowen wouldbe found -- JUSTICE ALITO: Well, on the assumption thathe was living in those premises, then what is wrong witha reasonable officer thinking he's tried to kill her inthe past using one gun; he's a member of a gang; he isvery likely to have -- to possess or have access toother guns; those other guns may be found in the homewhere we believe he is living, and he is intending touse them to carry out the threat that he has promised,the threat that he has made? MR. WOLFSON: There are several -- I thinkthere are several problems with that. The first problemis the police don't have probable cause to believe thathe has another gun, and they don't -- and they certainlydon't have probable cause to believe that any other suchgun would be found at the Millenders' house, and I --the Millenders' house where innocent people live. Now -- and it's not just -- and it's not Officialjust that no other such gun would be found at theMillenders', and the Millenders themselves have right topossess handguns for lawful purposes of self-defense.So, it's possible -- of course, it is possible tospeculate about the things that the police might -- JUSTICE KENNEDY: Well, just suppose they'researching the suspect's own house. MR. WOLFSON: Right. JUSTICE KENNEDY: And there's -- he's used aspecific gun, a -gauge Remington shotgun, and they've-- and they're looking for that. And these facts arethe same. He may continue to elude the police; he mayattack again. And they -- and they're searching thehouse, his own house. They see the one gun. They see asecond gun. They cannot take the gun, the second gun? MR. WOLFSON: No, I would not -- I would notsay that, Justice Kennedy, because I think that -- JUSTICE KENNEDY: On what basis do you saythey can take the second gun? MR. WOLFSON: Because if the police are in aplace where -- lawfully in a place pursuant to aproperly, narrowly drawn warrant, and they -- and theysee something in plain view, under this Court's plainview doctrine as articulated in Horton v. California,and there is probable cause to see something there to Officialassociate with criminal activity, yes, the police can --can seize that. But it -- but it's -- there's a bigdifference between thinking about what the police can doif they enter someplace lawfully and how they canreact -- JUSTICE BREYER: Yes, but what's thedifference between what you just said and the situationhere? You say, if he sees the gun next to the bed, forexample, or in the closet, and he's in the house lookingfor the sawed-off shotgun, he could seize it. He can'tunless he has probable cause to think it might be usedfor a crime. MR. WOLFSON: If -- JUSTICE BREYER: And so, how did thatchange? How did that change suddenly because hehappened to see in the house something in the closet,and nothing else changed? Why now suddenly can he takeit? MR. WOLFSON: I think the assumption, as Iunderstood, behind Justice Kennedy's question was, ifthe police see something -- happen to see something inthe house that is probable cause of a crime -- JUSTICE BREYER: No, but your argument isthere was no probable cause for thinking that the guns Officialin the house, if there were other guns, would be usedfor a crime. Now, your opponent, your brother there,said when I suggested that: Oh, no, that's wrong; thereis probable cause to think that any guns in the housewould be used for a crime. He hasn't killed the girlyet, and one gun's as good as another. And he mightwell take one of those other guns and kill her. So,there's probable cause to believe that the guns that arein the house, or at least one could reasonably think so,would be used for a crime. That was his response. Then, as to whether they're likely to be inthe house, well, we know this: We know he has asawed-off shotgun, and we know he is a member of a gang,which is defined as a group of people engaged indefinable criminal activity, creating an atmosphere offear and intimidation. So, well, people like that have guns. Andwhen -- where they live, there may well be other guns.So, it is reasonable for me to think there are otherguns in the house and reasonable for me to thin k thatother guns in the house would be used for killing thisgirl if he can get to her. Okay, that's the argument. Now, what's the response? MR. WOLFSON: Well -- JUSTICE BREYER: And you don't have to -- Officialyou have to show more than that there's no probablecause. You have to show it wasn't reasonable to thinkthat there was probable cause. MR. WOLFSON: Because the police did nothave probable cause to believe there was any other gun,and they certainly -- JUSTICE BREYER: He's a member of a gangwhich often has guns, and this expert knows that membersof gangs have guns. And the definition of "gang"suggests they're likely to have guns, whether it'sillegal to have them or not illegal. MR. WOLFSON: But it -- JUSTICE BREYER: That's how he knows that.That's how he knows. MR. WOLFSON: But it doesn't -- excuse me.It doesn't necessarily follow that there is probablecause to believe that he has an arsenal of weapons withhim at an innocent third-party's house. JUSTICE SCALIA: And the warrant authorizedthe search for and seizure of all guns, not just theguns belonging to Bowen. And in -- MR. WOLFSON: That is correct. JUSTICE SCALIA: -- in fact, they seizedsome of the Millenders' guns, didn't they? MR. WOLFSON: That is correct. The Officialpolice -- JUSTICE SCALIA: And why is it -- if there'sprobable cause to believe that he has other guns, isthere also probable cause to believe that any gun foundin the house will belong to him? I think not. MR. WOLFSON: I would say not, Your Honor,but I -- CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: We've beentalking -- we've been talking about this for some timeas if we're reviewing the adequacy of the warrant.We're not. We're reviewing the reasonableness of theseofficers' determination that there was probable cause. Do you think it is at all pertinent inaddressing that question that the officers submitted theaffidavit to support the warrant to Deputy DistrictAttorney Jane Wilson, who reviewed it and signed off onit? MR. WOLFSON: I -- I think it can't bedispositive, Your Honor. CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: I didn't ask if it'sdispositive. Is it relevant in any way? MR. WOLFSON: It could be -- it could berelevant, but I would say it's -- it doesn't -- itdoesn't make the case in this case, for a few reasons.First of all, generally speaking, of course, if you Officialcan't rely on the magistrate as a -- you know, as ablanket rule that you're not immune, it's hard tounderstand why the fact that the deputy districtattorney signed off on it would have essentially thesame effect that the Court rejected in Malley, when itsaid, you know, there will be a limited set ofcircumstances where even if -- even if a magistrateissues a warrant, the officer will be liable. So, I don't think that -- I mean, thedistrict attorney and the -- and the superior are on thesame crime-fighting team as the -- as the -- asDetective Messerschmidt in this case. Also, we really -- we have no informationabout what transpired in these conversations with thedeputy district attorney. We don't know whether theD.A. said to Detective Messerschmidt: Oh, you know,you're good; this is totally fine. Or whether she said:You know, you're pushing the envelope here, but we mightjust find a magistrate who will go along with it, so --you know, so, see what you can get. And the other point is, of course, relyingon your superiors and on the D.A. is a double-edgedsword in many cases, because that -- in fact, that canestablish or go a long way towards establishing Monellliability, if you establish that there's a pattern of Officialsuperiors and of deputy district attorneys -- CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Do you want -- doyou want to encourage officers, when they're applyingfor search warrants, to have them reviewed by the deputydistrict attorney or not? MR. WOLFSON: Certainly, we want them to --to encourage that, Mr. Chief Justice. But the point is,in Malley, this Court made clear that, ultimately, areasonably -- a reasonably well-trained officer mustmake a judgment himself as to whether the course ofconduct that he proposes to undertake could reasonablybe thought to be within the law. JUSTICE SCALIA: Ultimately, it's theofficer who goes into the Millenders' house, seizestheir arms, rifles through their drawers. It's -- it'sthe officer that does that? MR. WOLFSON: Well, the officers who are thePetitioners in this case are the officers who actuallyapplied for the search warrant and who actually draftedthe search warrant for the magistrate to -- to sign.Now, they then were present at the search. I thinkthere is a -- JUSTICE SCALIA: Oh, I didn't understandthat. MR. WOLFSON: Yes. Official JUSTICE SCALIA: They -- they did notexecute the warrant? MR. WOLFSON: They were -- they were -- theywere part of the executing team, yes. They were --there were -- CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Did they enter theresidence? MR. WOLFSON: They entered the residence,yes. There were other officers who I think it would befair to say kind of more -- undertook the more concretesearch of the -- you know, of the house from top tobottom. I think there is a different question aboutwhen a line officer relies on his lead officer'sinstructions. And that was actually discussed by theNinth Circuit in -- in the Groh case, which later cameup to -- came up to this Court. But I think the -- the standard that theCourt set forth in Malley, the objective reasonablenessstandard, is really -- it's consistent with this Court'squalified immunity case law -- JUSTICE BREYER: If that is the -- we'reusing a purely objective standard, another fact that Ijust want your reaction on is where he says, "I told younever to call the cops on me." Now, he has tried tothrow her out of the window or something. He -- he's Officialshot at her. He's trying to kill her in five differentways, and he's shouting: I'm going to kill you and Itold you never to call the cops on me. When I first read that I thought, well,maybe he has some -- maybe this is explained in part notjust domestic, but he has something to hide. He'safraid she's going to tell the police something. Now --now, could a person reasonably read those words andthink he has something to hide here? His -- and there'ssomething going on, and it's not just domestic? Where does that lead us if we -- MR. WOLFSON: I don't -- JUSTICE BREYER: Can we read it that way?And if we do read it that way, where does that lead you? MR. WOLFSON: Well, the Petitioners havenever suggested that reading before. And, indeed, thePetitioners have -- indeed, Detective Messerschmidttestified at his deposition: No, I didn't have anyreason to believe that the crime was gang-related. I mean, one of the curious things aboutthe -- the argument that the Petitioners are now making,which is that you can go outside the warrant and importinto it the fact that he was a felon -- one of thecurious things about that is that the -- is that theofficers told the magistrate this is a violent crime, no Officialquestion; he is a gang member -- not in support ofprobable cause, but in support of night service. Theytold the magistrate that they had reviewed all thevarious government databases, specifically includingpolice databases, but did not tell the magistrate thathe had any criminal record at all. JUSTICE GINSBURG: Mr. Wolfson -- MR. WOLFSON: But that's so -- JUSTICE GINSBURG: Mr. Wolfson, if --suppose they had had a warrant to search just for thesawed-off shotgun. You conceded that when they go intothe house and they're looking all over, they could lookin cabinets and drawers for the -- to find pieces of theshotgun. They come across other guns, they can at leastsecure -- take those guns for their own safety. Thereare other people in the house, and somebody might usethem. So, what's -- what's the difference in thescope of the search if they have a warrant just to lookfor the sawed-off shotgun or if they have a warrant thatcovers any guns? MR. WOLFSON: Well, a couple of responses.First of all, I think this Court's decisions in Groh andother courts made clear that when you're evaluatingwhether -- whether the Respondents were harmed by this Officialviolation of their constitutional rights, you have tolook at the warrant that was actually applied for andexecuted, not -- you don't -- you don't compare it to ahypothetical warrant that the police might have gottenif they had applied for a properly limited warrant. CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: To cite Groh -- inGroh, the warrant did not identify the items to beseized at all. MR. WOLFSON: That is correct. But theargument was made in Groh -- was, well, there really wasno harm because surely the officers had probable cause,and if they had done their work right, that there was Ithink no question that they would have gotten a warrant,and the -- CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Your answer -- and,again, it seems to me we keep separating these twoinquiries. It's not whether the warrant showed adequateprobable cause; it's whether or not the officers werereasonable in believing that it did. MR. WOLFSON: I understand -- CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: And to cite Groh,a -- no reasonable officer could think that a warrantthat doesn't say anything at all about what's to beseized complied with the Fourth Amendment. MR. WOLFSON: But the argument was made in OfficialGroh that essentially this was sort of no harm, no foul,because surely a reasonable police officer could haveobtained a valid warrant. And I was -- I was sort ofanalogizing that to the question that Justice Ginsburgmade. I don't think that really is a question ofqualified immunity at all. I think that may be aquestion of damages as to whether you could think, oh,well, perhaps the police might have gotten a validwarrant and so forth. But -- so, I think, sure, it'spossible to imagine that the police could have gotten avalid, narrow warrant limited to -- limited to searchfor the sawed-off shotgun, and -- and certainly not thegang-related activity, but they didn't. And one hasto -- one has to measure the harm that the -- that theMillenders suffered by execution of this -- JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: So, what happens -- MR. WOLFSON: -- invalid warrant. JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: -- below on thatquestion? Following up on -- MR. WOLFSON: Right. JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: -- the same questionthat Justice Kagan asked your brethren, which is howabout we find that it was reasonable to ask for the gunsbut not for the gang-related materials? What does thatdo to your claim, and do you disagree with the manner in Officialwhich he described what the inquiry would be below orbefore us now? MR. WOLFSON: Right. We do disagree. Wewould submit that the -- that it's still -- it's stillinvalid. But this is an issue that the courts ofappeals have wrestled with under what is called theseverance doctrine, which mostly is applied inexclusionary rule cases, not in qualified immunitycases. This Court has actually never explicitlyendorsed the severance doctrine, and that is thequestion -- suppose you have a warrant that is sort ofhalf valid and half valid or maybe half arguably validbut half totally -- you know, totally invalid. What doyou do then? And the -- I think at a minimum the recordwould not permit this Court to -- to resolve thatbecause we don't know from the record before us sort ofwhat part of the search was conducted under what part ofthe -- of the warrant. But -- JUSTICE ALITO: What's to the gangparaphernalia? Why couldn't an officer reasonablybelieve that there was a probable cause to seize that --to search for and seize that, because it would link Mr.Bowen with this residence where they hoped to find theshotgun? And you dispute the fact that he is -- that he Officialis associated with that residence. MR. WOLFSON: Right. So, Justice Alito,there certainly are circumstances in which it islegitimate to seek for information that links aparticular person to a particular location for purposesof establishing criminal liability. The -- you know,there are many cases, for example, where the police comeacross a meth lab or something like that. And, ofcourse, in that situation the police have a legitimatereason to -- to want to know who is present, whosefingerprints are all over the place, because that wouldtend to establish that the person is -- is in unlawfulpossession of methamphetamine. JUSTICE ALITO: And why couldn't areasonable officer think that that would be the casehere? MR. WOLFSON: For -- for a few reasons.First of all, the th Street address, the Millenders'house, is totally irrelevant to the actual crime underinvestigation, which took -- someplace else. I mean,it's just a happenstance that the -- that the police aresearching -- searching this place. It's not the place.This is not a tavern or a still or -- JUSTICE ALITO: No, well, if they haveprobable cause to believe that the sawed-off shotgun is Officialthere -- let's suppose they find the sawed-off shotgun.Then there's going to be an issue at trial: Was it hissawed-off shotgun? And anything that links him to thatresidence is valuable evidence. MR. WOLFSON: But the gang-related indiciapart of the warrant is, first of all, much, much broaderthan that; and, secondly, the Petitioners have neverargued until this Court that that was the purpose of thegang-related indicia part of the warrant. I mean, thePetitioners argued that the gang-related indicia part ofthe warrant is intended to establish his -- his gangmembership. And -- because, for example, there might bea -- an increase in penalty if something is agang-related crime. Even while -- JUSTICE ALITO: I thought this was a test ofwhat they could -- what a reasonable officer could havebelieved, not what they in particular believed. MR. WOLFSON: Well, that's correct, but Ithink, you know, that does not mean that one can engageessentially in a completely post-hoc rationalization ofwhat the objective search by the -- to be accomplishedby the warrant is. I mean, the warrant applicationitself says this is a spousal assault that the policeare investigating. There's no suggestion that it's agang-related crime in any way. Official JUSTICE KAGAN: Mr. Wolfson, it seems thatmany of the arguments on both sides are veryfact-dependent in nature, that you're asking whatinferences can be drawn reasonably from certain facts,from a particularly violent incident, from the use of asawed-off shotgun, from the fact that this was not hishome, from the fact that he was a gang member. And yet, the cases that you cite to us assuggesting what a reasonable police officer should knowreally are not cases that involve these facts at all.They're cases that state very broad general propositionsabout Fourth Amendment law. So, how can you get fromthose cases to what you're saying a particular policeofficer in a particular set of circumstances ought toknow? MR. WOLFSON: Well, of course, this Courthas never required that, for qualified immunitypurposes, that the case -- there be another case exactlyon point. And -- JUSTICE KAGAN: No. But there seems to be avery large gap between what this police officer has tothink about and the cases that you cite. MR. WOLFSON: Respectfully, Justice Kagan, Idon't think I agree, and I think that it's -- it'suseful to look at two related but somewhat different Officiallines of cases, particularly in the Ninth Circuit but,actually, you know, all across the board in the courtsof appeals. The first line of cases says if the policehave reason or have probable cause to look for aspecific object or specific -- even a specific kind ofobject, that doesn't give them probable cause to lookfor the whole generic class of objects that are somewhatsimilar. The leading case on this in the NinthCircuit is the Spilotro decision, but there are manycases coming both before and after that stand for thatproposition. The -- the principle has been applied inmany contexts. For example, if you think that somebodyis committing fraud for years and and thereare billing records, you can't -- you don't haveprobable cause to look for fraud, you know, for theentire records, billing records from to thepresent. If you think that -- if you see somebody runover somebody else in a green Nissan Sentra, you don'thave probable cause to search for all vehicles includinga red Ford -- a red Ford Explorer. This is really that principle in the contextof firearms. And it -- and Detective Messerschmidt hadthe information that the case involved a black sawed-off Officialshotgun with a pistol grip. Now, there certainly arecases -- JUSTICE ALITO: Well, to come back to aquestion that was asked before -- MR. WOLFSON: Yes. JUSTICE ALITO: -- suppose they wereissuing -- suppose the warrant just sought this --the -- that particular weapon. They execute it, andthey come to a room in this house, and it's got Mr.Bowen's name on it, and inside there's a gun cabinet,and there are -- there are a whole -- there's a wholearray of guns, legal -- let's say he legally possessesthem. There's a -- there's a -- there are assaultrifles. There are pistols. And it's known that he'sthreatened to kill his girlfriend. You say -- would thepolice be able to seize those? MR. WOLFSON: Yes, I think there are manythings the police can do. First of all, an assaultrifle is illegal. So, that per se is contraband -- JUSTICE ALITO: All right. All sorts oflegal weapons -- MR. WOLFSON: Right. Okay. And -- JUSTICE ALITO: -- that could be used.Could they -- could they seize those? MR. WOLFSON: Well, the police -- if -- and Officialso, one question is, do the police know that Mr. Bowenis a felon? And here I think that is relevant, becausethey are dealing with what not what is in the affidavitbut to on-the-spot judgments. So, if the police -- JUSTICE ALITO: Let's -- MR. WOLFSON: So -- okay. JUSTICE ALITO: -- I'm hypothesizing -- MR. WOLFSON: Right. JUSTICE ALITO: -- he has a license for allof these. MR. WOLFSON: Right. So, I think thereare -- JUSTICE ALITO: He's not a felon. MR. WOLFSON: So, I think if the police haveprobable cause, in light of the circumstances that theyactually encounter at the house, that the guns -- JUSTICE ALITO: The circumstances areexactly the circumstances here -- MR. WOLFSON: That the -- JUSTICE ALITO: -- except for the two thingsthat I changed. It's his room, and it's his guncabinet. MR. WOLFSON: The police may be able tosecure all of those weapons, certainly so that they poseno danger to anybody else. And if Mr. Bowen is arrested Officialand then, if -- if he is to be released on bail or onpretrial release, it's a very common condition that henot have access to any weapons. The police -- it may berequired that he deposit those weapons with somebodyelse who, you know, is a proper custodian -- JUSTICE ALITO: Well, let's say they don'tfind him. He's still at large. They have to leave theweapons there. MR. WOLFSON: I don't think they --necessarily have to leave the weapons there. JUSTICE ALITO: When they leave. Why? Onwhat ground could they seize them? MR. WOLFSON: If there is no -- well, ifhe's not -- if he's not there, then it's not clear to methat he has a Fourth Amendment standing to challengeanything. JUSTICE ALITO: It's his room. It's hisroom. MR. WOLFSON: It's his room. But if he's --I mean, but if he's --- if they really believe that thepolice -- that he is there, that it is his house, thereis no reason to believe that his possession of any ofthese weapons is illegal, there are -- the police can dothings to secure them. JUSTICE KENNEDY: I'm putting in my notes Officialthat you're not answering the hypothetical. MR. WOLFSON: Right. (Laughter.) MR. WOLFSON: I think there -- I'm not sure.I don't think the police can say these weapons are justours, we're going to take them, we can seize themwithout -- without probable -- without more probablecause. JUSTICE ALITO: They can't say, and we'regoing to take them under -- we're going to take them sothat he can't use those to kill his girlfriend which iswhat he has threatened to do? They just have to leavethem there -- MR. WOLFSON: No -- JUSTICE ALITO: -- and if he happens to comeback and -- and get those weapons, and he kills her,well, that's just too bad? MR. WOLFSON: But if the police -- thepolice have -- if the police have probable cause tobelieve that he -- on the spot that he will use thatweapons, yes, they can seize them under that provisionof the California Penal Code, but that does not meanthey have probable cause when they apply for the -- thewarrant, to think that those weapons either willexist -- Official JUSTICE ALITO: You really -- you really arenot answering my question. MR. WOLFSON: I -- JUSTICE ALITO: My question is: Everythingis exactly the same except that it's his room and he'snot a felon and he possesses them legally and there theyare, and they see them. MR. WOLFSON: I think -- JUSTICE ALITO: And your answer is they cantake them. In which case, my question is, why wouldn'tthey have probable cause to search for those in thefirst place? Or they can't take them, in which case Isay, well, what about the possibility that he will comeback, get those weapons, and carry out his threat usingthose weapons? MR. WOLFSON: They can -- they may be ableto take them, but that does not mean that they knew thatthey existed in the first place or that they would be atthe Millenders' house. That's -- that I think is thefundamental difference. JUSTICE GINSBURG: What happened here whenthey -- when they -- they did seize weapons thatbelonged to the plaintiff, Mrs. Millender. They -- theytook them because they thought they were thedefendant's? But -- not that -- they thought they were OfficialBowen's? MR. WOLFSON: It's not clear, JusticeGinsburg. They took them under the authority of thewarrant. They did not provide an explanation as tospecifically why they were -- why the gun was seized,but the gun was seized. And this -- I think this reallythe -- this point, that they went into the Millenders'house, searched the house from top to bottom, and seizedthe Millenders' -- Mrs. Millender's lawfully ownedweapon really shows that this case is in the heartlandof what the Fourth Amendment is concerned about. Imean, this is exactly the kind of case that the Framerswere concerned about when they abolished thegeneral warrant. This is the sort of case -- CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Counsel, do you --do you contend that anything in the affidavit was false? MR. WOLFSON: Yes. False or at least -- CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: What -- MR. WOLFSON: -- or at least misleading. CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: What was that? MR. WOLFSON: I think the -- the -- theproposition that Bowen, quote, unquote, "resided" at theth Street address and that that -- and that thatconclusion was drawn from, among other things, DetectiveMesserschmidt's search of government databases was Officialmaterial misleading, because he didn't reside there. Hemay have been staying -- hiding out there, and thesearch of the government databases which are actually --the results are actually reprinted -- CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Where did the -- MR. WOLFSON: Sorry. CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: -- may have been --may have staying there? MR. WOLFSON: That is what Shelly Kelly toldDetective Messerschmidt, which is, if I am notmistaking -- CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: And you say it wasmaterially false that they said he resides there, andwhat he knew is that he may have been staying there? MR. WOLFSON: He may have been hiding outthere. When -- especially when you combine that withall the other information that Detective Messerschmidtactually obtained from the printouts of the databaseswhich are in the JA, which in fact say that he hadn'tbeen at the th Street address for several months andthat his most recent address was th Street, where helived with -- where he stayed with, at least sometimes,Shelly Kelly and gave it out as his address. So,that -- that is in the respects why we think that thisis materially misleading. Official Of course, we were not allowed to appealthat determination, so that really only half of the casein that respect was before the court of appeals and isbefore this Court. Thank you very much. CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, counsel. Mr. Coates, you have minutes remaining. REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF TIMOTHY R. COATES ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONERS MR. COATES: With respect to the -- thehypothetical that Justice Alito postulated in terms offinding other weapons there, and Respondents' counsel tosay, well, we might go on the plain view doctrine, Ithink these are circumstances in which we note that youwant to encourage officers, when they can, not to -- notrely on exceptions to the warrant requirement. Andhere, if anything, the officers in an abundance ofcaution attempted to get a warrant, contemplating thoseprecise circumstances. I don't think they should incurliability for -- for going to that extra step and thatextra precaution. And, again, a step back from whetherthere's actually probable cause, but whether areasonable officer could even believe that might be thecase for purposes of sending it to a magistrate. And I think, under those circumstances, you Officialwant to encourage officers to seek a magistrate'sdetermination and not try and rely on on-the-sceneexceptions to the warrant requirement to try and justifyseizing weapons under those circumstances. With respect to Justice Scalia's concernabout the probable cause to seize all guns as opposed toguns belonging to Bowen -- and I think the notion isthat Bowen, being a resident and that being establishedfor purposes of this contention at this point, stilldown at district court, but it was assumed for purposesof the Ninth Circuit that he was a resident, that as aresident, that he would have access to that firearm. And I think that this was bolstered by thefact -- again, his status as a gang member. We cite theChicago Housing Authority v. Rose case, which talksabout the manner in which gang members often store anduse weapons at family members' homes. I mean, it's anunfortunate part of the -- of the gang culture. So,it's not unreasonable for an officer to think theremight be probable cause at the very least to seize anyweapon found there, even if ultimately facts developedthat it is in fact not Bowen's weapon. And this also goes to the indicia of gangmembership and why it's reasonable even to ask, becausethat may be one of the means by which we could tie a Officialparticular weapon to Bowen depending upon what's foundduring the search. This is a very high standard as establishedby this Court, which is essentially plainly incompetentor knowingly violating the law. And this is an officerthat has not hidden the ball with respect to whattranspired between Bowen and Kelly. He submitted it tohis superiors to look at; he submitted it to anattorney. And while that's not dispositive, I thinkthose are objective facts that a reasonable officercould say, I've done this, this, and this; there's noreason for me to believe that I'm violating the law insending it to a magistrate. CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, counsel,counsel. The case is submitted. (Whereupon, at : p.m., the case in theabove-entitled matter was submitted.) OfficialOfficialAability :able : :: ::abolished :above-entitled: :absolute :absolutely ::abundance:access :: ::accomplished:accorded :account :,: ::acting :actions ::,activity :: :,: ::actual ::add :adding :additional :address :: :,:addressed :addressing:adds :adequacy :adequate :admission :adopt :affidavit ::,, :: :,: :,: :: ::affidavits :afraid :agree :,:AL :,albums :Alito : :: :,:,,,: :,: :,: ::,,,:,,,,: :,: :,:,, :allegedly :allow :::Amendment :: :: : :: :: :: ::amicus : ::amounts :analogizing :analogous ::anchor :Anderson :Angeles :answer ::, ::answering :: : :anybody :anyway :apologize :appeal :appeals :: : :APPEARAN...:appendix :: :application ::applied ::,,,,:, ::, ::apply : ::, :applying :: :appointed :appropriate::arguably :argued ::,arguing :argument ::,,, :: :: :,: :: :,:arguments :arises :arms :array :arrest :arrested :arsenal :articles :articulatedallowed :appropriately:articulates:ascertainable:asked :: :,:, ::asking :: :: :aspect :aspects ::assault :,:, :: :,: ::,assaults :assembled :assess :assessment: :,:,associate :associated :: :assume :assumed :assumption ::, :atmosphere:atomic :attack :,:attempt :attempted :: :attorney ::,,: :attorneys :: :Augusta :authority :authorization:::authorize :authorized:authorizes :authorizing:a.m : :Bback ::,,: :: ::background:bad : :: :bail :balance :ball :bare-bone :bare-bones :: :based :basis :beat :bed :behalf :,,: : :: :belief : :believe :,: :: :,: :: ::,,:,,,: :,:, :: : Official:, :: :believed :: :,believing :belong :belonged :belonging :::best :beyond : ::big :billing :,bit :black :blanket :board :bolstered :bomb :bothers :bottom ::bounds :Bowen : ::,, :: ::, ::, :,Bowen's :: :BRENDA :brethren :BREYER :: :,: :,: :: :,: ::, ::Briggs : :broad :broader :brother :brought :build :burden :Cc : : :cabinet ::cabinets :caliber :California :: ::,, :: ::call : ::called :careful :carry ::carrying :carved :case : :,:, ::, ::, :,: :,: :: :,: :: :,: :,: ::, ::, :: :,:,,:, ::,cases : :: :: :,: :,:,,:,, :catch-all :categories ::category :cause : :: ::, ::, ::, :: :,:, :: ::, ::,,:,,: :,: :,:,,,:,, ::, :: :,:, ::,,: ::,caused :caution :certain :certainly :: : :: :: :: :: ::challenge :change ::,changed :characteristic::check :checked :checking :Chicago :Chief :, :: :,:, :: ::,,:,,:, ::, :,: :,: :,: :,: ::circuit :,: : :: :,:circumstance:,circumstances: : ::, :: :: :: :,: :,: :cite : :: :,:cited :civil :claim : :class :clear : :: :: ::clearly :client : :clients :,close :closer :closet :,Coates : :: :,,:, ::,,, :: :,:, :,:,,,:,,,:,,:,, :: :,: :,:, ::,,:,,,: ::,,Code : :: :,:colors :,: :,:,combine :come : :: :: ::, ::comes :coming :commission:commit :: :: :commits :committing :: :common :compare :competent ::complete :completely:complied :conceded :concern :concerned ::,conclusion: Officialdefinable :defined :directly :disagree ::defines :defining :definitely :definition :degree :denying :Department:depend :depending :depends ::depict :depicting :deposit :deposition ::deputy :: :,:,described :despite :detail :detailed :Detective :: :: ::,determination: : :: :: :determine :determined :determining:developed :difference :: ::different :: ::difficulty ::discharged:disclosed :discussed ::discusses :dispose ::dispositive ::, :dispute :district :: ::,,:, :doctrine ::, :documents:doing :domestic :,: : ::double-edged:doubt :drafted :drawers ::drawn :: :drug :D.A :,D.C :,,EE : :,effect :effectively :either ::elude :encounter :encourage :concrete :condition :conduct :conducted :conducting :confine :confined :connection :: :consider :consideration:consistent :constitutional: :contemplating:contend :contention :contesting ::,context :,: : :: :,,:, :: ::contexts :context-specificcontinue :contrabandcontrary :control :conversations:::::cop :cops : :correct : :: :: :,: :: ::, ::correctly ::,,counsel :: :: ::, ::couple :course :,: :: :: :: ::court :,:,, ::, :: :: ::, :: :,:, :: :,:, :: :,: :: ::, :: :: :,: :courts : :: ::Court's :,: :: :covers :created :,creating :Creighton :crime :,: : :: :,: :: ::, ::, ::, :: ::,crimes :crime-fighting:criminal :: :,: :: ::culture :curiae : ::curious :,current ::currently :CURT :custodian :DD :damages :danger :databases :,: :,dealing :deals :decals :DECEASED :December :decide :decided :decision :: :decisions :defective :defendant ::defendant's: :defense :deference :deficient : :, ::endorsed :engage :: :engaged :enter : :entered :entire :: :entitled :: :envelope :especially :ESQ :,,:,,,essentially :: :: :establish ::, ::established :: :establishing: :ESTATE :ET :,evaluating:evidence :: :,,:, :: :,: :,:Ewing :exact :exactly :: :: :example :: :: ::exception :exceptionsOfficial: :exclusion :exclusionaryexculpates :exculpatory:::excuse :: :: :execute ::executed :executes :executing :execution :EXECUTOR::exercising :exist :existed :existence :: :expand ::experience :expert :explained :explanation:explicitly :Explorer :expressed :extent :extra :,Fface :fact : :: :: :,: :: :,: :,factor :facts : :: ::, ::factual : :fact-dependentfact-specific::fair : :fairly :faith : :,:, : :: :,: :,,: : ::,,,: ::, ::,false :,:falsified :familiarityfamily :::far : :Fathers :favored :fear : :feature :Federal :felon : :: :find : :: :,: :: :: :: ::finding :: :fine :fingerprints:Finish :firearm ::firearms :: :firearms-relat...:first : ::,,: :: :: :: :: ::,five :flees :follow :Following :follows :footnote :Ford :,form :former :formulated:formulation:forth : :: :: ::forward :foster :foul :found :,: ::,,: :,:,,: :: :Founding :Fourth :,: ::, :: :: :: :Framers :fraud :,front :function :fundamental:further :,future :GG :gang :,,:,,,,,:, :,:,,,:,,:,,,,:, :: :,:,,,:,,,,:,,, :: :,:, :: :: :,: :: ::,,,gangland :gangs : :: :,:gang-related: :,:, :: :: ::, ::,,,gap :Gates :general :: :,: :,, Official: :generally ::generic :gentleman :: :Ginsburg :: :,:, :: ::, :: :girl :,girlfriend :: ::give : :given :go : :: :: :: :,: ::goes : :: ::going ::, :: :,: ::,,:good : :,:, : :: :,: :,,: :,:,,,,: :: :,: ::gotten :,:,government: ::governs :,great : :green :grip :Groh :: :,:, :gross :grossly :,ground :group :guess :: :gun :,:, ::, ::,,,:, :: :: ::,guns : :: :,,:, ::, :: :,:, ::,,,,:,,:,,,:, ::,,: :: :,gun's :guy : :Hhalf :,,: :handgun :handguns :,: :happen :: :happened :happens :happenstance:::hard :harder :Harlow :harm : ::harmed :head :hear : :hearing :heartland :heavy :heightened :held :help :helping :hidden :hide : :,hiding :,high : ::highly :hold :,home : :: ::homes :Honor : ::, :: :,Honor's :hook :hope :hoped :Horton :house ::,,,,: :,,:, ::, ::, ::, ::, ::,,,: :: :: :,: :: :: :,Housing :hypothesishypothesizedhypothesizing:::hypothetical: ::Iidentification:identify :identifying :identity :illegal :: :: :,: :illegally :Illinois :illogical :illustrates :imagine :immune :: :immunity :: : :: :: :: :,,: :,:, :: ::implicate :import ::important ::incident :includes :including :: :incompetence:incompetent :: ::, :: :incorporates :increase :increases :incur :independent: :indication :indications :indicia : :: :: ::, :: :: :,,:individual :: :individually:inferences :information:, ::, :: ::,,: :: :initial :innocent :: :inquiries :inquiry :: ::inside : instructions:intended :: :intending :intends :intensity :intent :: :interests :interpret :interrupt :intimidation:invalid :: :,investigating: :investigation: :invoked :involve ::involved ::, :involves ::irrelevant :: ::issue : :: :,:, ::issued : :issues :issuing :item :items : :: :,: :JJA :Jane :joint : :judge :,,:,,:,judges :,judgment ::judgments :judicial :jumped :jurisprudence:Justice : :: :, :: :,,:, :: :,:,,:,,,: :,,:,,,:,,:,,:, ::,,,:,,:,,,: :,:, :: :,:,,: :,:,,,:, ::,,: :,:,,,:,,,: :,:, :: ::, :,:,,:, :,:, ::,,: :,:, ::, :,Official:, ::, ::, :,: :,:,,: :,: ::,,:,,,:,,,,: :,:, :: :,,: :,:, ::, :: ::justify :Kk :Kagan :: :: :: :,:keep :Kelly :,::Kennedy :,:, ::,,,:Kennedy's:kill : :: :: :,: :killed :killing :kills :kind : ::knew :,: :: :know : :: ::, ::, :,:,, ::,,:,,,:, ::, :: ::, :: ::knowingly :: ::known :: ::knows : ::,Llab :lacking :: ::language :: :large :: :Laughter :law : :: :: :: ::,lawful :lawfully :: :lawyer :,lawyers :lead : ::::::leading :leave :,,:left :legal :,legally :legion :legitimate :legitimatelyLeon : ::, :: ::,,let's : :: ::, :: ::liability :: :liable : :license ::lie :light : ::limited :: ::,line : :lines :link :links : :little : ::live : :lived :lives :living :: :,location :logic :long : :look :,, :, ::,,,: ::, :: :,: :looked :looking :: :: :: :looks :Los :lot : :Mmagistrate :: :: :: :: :,:, :: ::,,: ::, ::magistrates: :magistrate's: : :: ::main :majority :making :::Malley : :: :: :: :,,: :: ::manner :: :: :man's :material :::::materially :materials :matter :mean : ::,,: :,: ::, :: :: :: :,: :: :: :meaningful:means : :: :meant :measure :member ::,,, :: ::,,: :: :: :: ::members ::, ::,membership :: :,: :,:, ::, :: :: :membershipsOfficial:mentioned:Messerschmidt: : :: :: :,Messerschmid...:meth :methampheta...:Millender :,: :Millenders:, :: :: :: ::,Millender's :: :minimize :minimum :minute :minutes :mishmash :misleading: :,misspoke :misstatementmistake :mistakes ::::mistaking :mix :Model :Monday :Monell :moniker :,:monikers :months :multiple :murder ::NN :, :name :narrow :: ::narrowed :narrowly :natural :nature :,: :necessarily :: :need :,: :,neither :neutral :never :: :,: ::new :night :Ninth : :: :,:Nissan :nonsuppression:note : :: ::notes :notion :number :Nuremberg:OO : :object :,objective :: :,: :,: :objectively: ::objects :obtained ::obtaining :offense :office :officer :,:, :,: :,,,:, :,: : :: :,:, ::,,: :: :,:,,:, ::,, ::,,: ::,,: :: :: ::,,: ::,officers : :: :,: :: :,: :,:, :: :,: :: :,:, :officer's :: ::official ::oh : : Official: :: :okay : :: ::,,,: ::omitted :on-the-scene:on-the-spot :opinion :opponent :opposed ::oral : :,: : ::order : :ordinary :ought :,:outlier :outlined :outside ::overrule :owned :ownership: :PP :page : :: ::,,:paperwork ::paragraph: :,:,paragraphsparaphernalia::paraphrase:part : :: :: :,:,,:particular ::, ::, ::, ::particularly: :parts : ::party :passed :pattern :PAUL : ::Penal : :: :,:penalty :people : :: ::, :perform :period :permit :permits :perpetrated: :,person : :: ::,personal :persons :person's ::perspective :pertinent ::petition :Petitioner :Petitioners ::, :,: : :: :,: :,:photograph: :photographic:photographs: :,: :,phrase :,physical :pieces :pistol :: ::pistols :place : :: ::, ::, ::places :,plain :,:plainly : :: :plaintiff :play :please : ::point :,: :: :: : :: :: :: :police : :: : :: :,: :: :,: :,:,,: :: :,: :,: :: : :: :,,:,,: :,: ::,,:,,,:,,:,,,policeman ::pose :position :possess :possessed :possesses :::possessing :possession :: :possibility ::possible ::, :possibly ::postulated:post-hoc :pot :practice :precaution:precedent :precise :premise ::premises :: ::present :,: :: :presumably:presumes :pretrial :pretty ::prevent :Pre-Arraignm...:Principal :principle :principles :::printouts :prior :privacy :probability:probable ::, :: :,:, :: :,: :: :,:,,,:,,: :,: :,:,,,:,, ::, :: :,:, ::,,,: ::,problem :: ::, ::problematic:problems :Procedure:, procure :: :procured ::procures :professional:promised :proof ::proper :properly :: :property ::propose :proposes :proposition: :propositions:protect ::,,,protection :protective ::,protectively:,,protects :prove :provide :provided :provides :,provision ::,,: :,: :,:provisions :public : :purchase :purely :purpose :: ::purposes :: :: :: ::,pursuant :pushing :put : ::,putting :p.m :Qqualified :: : :: :: :: :,,: :: :: :quote :quoted :RR : :raise ::,rationalization:quantum :question :: :: ::, ::,,: :: :: :: :: ::,,,,: :: :,,questioned :questioningquestions :::Officialreact :reaction :read :,: :,,:reading :really :: :: :: :: :: ::, :,:reason :: :,:,,: :: :: :reasonable :: : :: :: ::, :: :,: ::, ::, :: :: :: ::reasonableness: :: :reasonably: ::,, :: :,,: ::reasons ::rebuttal :: :recall :receipts :recognized :: :record ::,records ::,red :,reference :regime :rejected :related ::relates :relating :relationship:release :released :relevance :relevant :: ::, :relies :rely : :: ::relying :remaining :rememberRemington::render : :repeatedly :reprinted :request :required :::requirement: :reserve :reside :resided :residence :: ::, :: :resident :,:resides :resolve :respect :: :,: :Respectfully:respects :: :Respondents: : :: ::response ::,responses :responsibility:rest :result :results :retained :review :,:reviewed :: :reviewing ::rifle :rifles ::right : ::, :,: :,: :: :,: :: ::, :: :rights :risk :ROBERTS : :, :,:, ::,,:, :: :,: : ::, ::, ::, ::room : :: :,: :Rose :roughly :rule :,:,, :: :ruled : :run :R.Q : ::SS : :safety :sawed-off :,:, ::, :: ::, :: :,: :saying : :: :,:says : :: :: :,: ::Scalia : ::,,:, ::,,:, :,:, ::, ::, :: ::, :Scalia's :scope : ::, :se : :search : :: :,: : ::,,,: :: :,:,,:,,: ::, ::, ::,,: ::,,,: :,: :,: :: :: :searched :searches :,searching ::, ::second ::,,,: :,:secondly :section ::,secure :: :see : :: :: :,:, ::, :: :Officialseek : :: :: ::seeking :seen : :sees :seize : :: :,:, :: ::, ::,seized ::, :,:seizes :seizing :seizure ::self-defensesending :sense : ::::sentence :: :,Sentra :separate ::separately ::separating:serve :service :set : :,: :: ::sets : :severance ::Shelly :,Sheppard ::shot :shotgun :,: :,,,: ::, :: :: ::,,: :: :,: :shouting :show : ::, ::,showed ::showing :shows ::sides :sign : :signed ::similar :simply :sitting ::situation :: ::solely :Solicitor :somebody ::,,:someplace ::somewhat :: :son :sorry :: ::sort :,:, :sorts ::Sotomayor ::,, :: ::,,,:, ::,,,: :,:sought :: :sounds :soup :speak :speaking ::specific :: :,,specifically :: :: ::specify :speculate :Spilotro :spite :spoke :,spot :spousal :SRI : ::Srinivasan :: :,:,,:, ::, ::, ::, :: :,:, :: :,stand :standard :: : ::, :: :,: : Officialstandards :standing :state :stated :statement ::States :,,: : :status :statute :stay :stayed :staying :,step : :::stepping :stick :stop :store :strange :Street :: :,stressed :stretch :strong :::stronger :stuff :stupid :subjective :submit :,,: :submitted :: ::, ::,,,subsection:subsequentlysuddenly :::suffered :sufficient :sufficiently: :,:suggest :suggested ::suggesting :suggestion:suggests :superior ::superiors :: :,: :: ::supervisor:supervisors :: :support : :: :: :,suppose :: :: ::,supposed ::,supposes :suppressing:suppression: :,: :Supreme :,sure : :: :: :surely ::suspect :suspect's :suspicion :sword :TT : :,,: :take : ::, :: ::, :: ::,,:,,taken :,talked :talking :,talks :tavern :team : :tell : :: : :tend : :tending :term :terms : :: :: :test :,,,:,,: :,: ::,,,:, ::,,:, :testified :testimony :Thank :: :,: :,:thin :thing :things :: :: ::, :: ::think : :: : ::,, :,: :: :,,: :,:,,:,,,:,,: :,: :: :,: ::,,:, ::, :: :: ::, ::, ::,,: ::,,: ::, ::,, :: ::,,:, ::,,: :,,:, :: ::,,:,,:thinking :,: :,thinks :third-party's:thought :: :,: :: :: :: ::,threat ::, :threatened: :: ::throw :tie : :,: ::ties :time : :: ::TIMOTHY: :, ::told : :: ::top : :tossed :totality :,:totally ::, :training :transpired: :trial :tried ::truthful :try :,trying : ::two : :: :,:, :: ::Uultimately :: :unconstitutio...:understand : :: :: ::understandableunderstanding::view :,:viewed :,violating :: ::,violation ::understood:undertake :undertookviolations :violent :: ::undesirableunfortunate:::unique :United :,,: : :unknown :unlawful :unquote :unreasonable: :: :unusual :urge :use : :: :: :: ::, :useful :Vv : :,,:, :: :valid :,,:,,validity ::valuable :various :vehicles :victim :,Wwait : :want : ::, ::, :: ::wants :warrant :,: : ::, :,:, ::, :: ::,,:, ::,,:,, :: :: :,,: :,,: :: :,: :,: ::,,:,,,,:, ::,,:, ::,,,: ::, :: :Officialwarrants :: :,:Washington:,,wasn't ::water :way : ::, :: :,: :: :,:ways : :weapon : ::,, ::,,: : :: :,:weapons : ::, :: :: :: :: ::,,,,:,,,:,,: :,wear :well-trained: ::, :went : :weren't :We'll :we're : ::, :: ::,,: :,:we've : ::,willing :Wilson :window :wiretap :,Wolfson :: :,: :: ::,,,:,, ::, :: ::,,,: :,: :,: :,:, ::,, ::, :: ::, :: :,: :,:, ::,,,: :,: :,:, ::, ::,,:,,wonderful :words ::work : :wouldn't :,:, :wrapped :: :,:wrestled :writ :wrong :,: :Xx :,Yyears : : :,- : : :: : :-gauge :: :th :: :(a)() :: : : : : : : :. : :a : : : : :: : : : : :(c)() : :-caliber : Official : :,th : 