Official IN THE SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - xMONROE ACE SETSER, : Petitioner : v. : No. -UNITED STATES. :- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - x Washington, D.C. Wednesday, November , The above-entitled matter came on for oralargument before the Supreme Court of the United Statesat : a.m.JASON D. HAWKINS, ESQ., Assistant Federal Public Defender, Dallas, Texas; for Petitioner.WILLIAM M. JAY, ESQ., Assistant to the Solicitor General, Department of Justice, Washington, D.C.; for Respondent, in support of Petitioner.EVAN A. YOUNG, ESQ., Austin, Texas; for amicus curiae, in support of the judgment below; appointed by this Court. Official C O N T E N T SORAL ARGUMENT OF PAGEJASON D. HAWKINS, ESQ. On behalf of the Petitioner ORAL ARGUMENT OFWILLIAM M. JAY, ESQ. On behalf of the Respondent, in support of the PetitionerORAL ARGUMENT OFEVAN A. YOUNG, ESQ. On behalf of amicus curiae, in support of the judgment belowREBUTTAL ARGUMENT OFJASON D. HAWKINS, ESQ. On behalf of the Petitioner Official P R O C E E D I N G S (: a.m.) CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: We'll hear argumentfirst this morning in Case -, Setser v. UnitedStates. Mr. Hawkins. ORAL ARGUMENT OF JASON D. HAWKINS ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONER MR. HAWKINS: Mr. Chief Justice, and may itplease the Court: This case concerns whether, in passing theSentencing Reform Act of , Congress granted to theFederal district court the authority to order a Federalsentence to run consecutively to a -- a sentence whichhas yet to be imposed and may never come to fruition.The text of , its structure, and its history allpoint to the conclusion that the court lacks this power. We believe the question should start and endwith the statute's text. When a defendant receivesmultiple terms of imprisonment, they must bear one ofthree relationships to each other. Either one isimposed before the other, the other is imposed beforethe one, or they are imposed at the same time. In -- JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Counsel, in the third Officialsentence of this provision, on its face, does Mr. Setserfit into it? MR. HAWKINS: No, Your Honor. He does not. JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: "Multiple terms ofimprisonment imposed at different times runconsecutively." What's unclear about those words? MR. HAWKINS: Your Honor, that term canonly -- JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: The words are notunclear. We have to do the statutory interpretationthat you want? MR. HAWKINS: Your -- Your Honor, the wordscan only be read in the context of the first -- of thefirst sentence. We believe that the third sentence onlyapplies where the Court had the authority to actuallyorder this but remained silent. JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Some fairly respectedjurists below, Judge Easterbrook and Judge Fletcher, twodifferent circuits, have read it as taking care of allthose situations that the other two sentences don'tcover. Why is that an irrational reading? MR. HAWKINS: Your Honor, I -- I think ithas to be read -- the third sentence has to be read inits place within the statute, and I think that the thirdsentence refers exclusively to circumstances where the Officialdefendant was already serving another term ofimprisonment at the time of the Federal sentencing. AndI think we know this because of the parallel structureof (a). It -- JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: But that assumes theanswer, is what I'm saying to you. If you give eachsentence its plain meaning, why is -- why is Mr. Setsernot within the plain meaning of the third? He -- he hadmultiple terms of imprisonment imposed at differenttimes. MR. HAWKINS: Yes, but those terms ofimprisonment weren't -- there was no term ofimprisonment imposed at the time of his Federalsentencing. He was not serving an undischarged term ofimprisonment. And we believe that the natural flow ofthe statute -- the default rule only comes in place ifthe court has the power to sentence under the firstsentence -- JUSTICE KENNEDY: You would say that at thetime of sentencing, there were no multiple terms ofimprisonment; is that your point? MR. HAWKINS: That is correct, Your Honor.At the time of the Federal sentencing, Mr. -- Mr. Setserwas not subject to an undischarged term of imprisonment. JUSTICE GINSBURG: What difference does it Officialmake for him? Now, he served his State time. He cameover to serve his Federal sentence. He didn't getcredit for the -/ years he spent in -- in the State.But what is the consequence? How much -- what is thedifference to the defendant in this case? MR. HAWKINS: Your Honor, we -- we believethat the order -- what the order did was bind the court.I'm sorry. The -- the order bound the Bureau ofPrisons. And so, what it does -- what happens is Mr.Setser is not able to petition the Bureau of Prisons toallow that sentence to begin running from the time ofthe Federal sentencing. And so, the difference, YourHonor, is year, months, and days that we believethat he is entitled to credit for. JUSTICE ALITO: And this is -- JUSTICE GINSBURG: Entitled to credit or youcould seek it? I mean, what wouldn't -- he has theState time and he -- -/ years, and then he has hisFederal sentence. Why would you be entitled to anycredit? MR. HAWKINS: Because -- because, YourHonor, the court ordered that the -- the Federalsentence to run concurrently to that -year sentencethat he received in State court. And so, we believe heis entitled to credit for that -- for that sentence. Official JUSTICE ALITO: In situations like this,somebody is going to have to make the decision whetherthe Federal sentence and the subsequently imposed Statesentence run concurrently or consecutively. And nowyou're arguing that that should be done by the Bureau ofPrisons. Do you think in general that is better fordefendants than a rule that would allow the sentencingjudge in Federal court to make that determination? MR. HAWKINS: Your Honor, in our estimationthe question is not the who, but the when. And at thetime, at the Federal sentencing, the Federal judge didnot have the complete information to make the properjudgment in this case. He had no idea what that Stateterm of imprisonment was going to be. So, in ourestimation, it is better that -- that the Bureau ofPrisons has all the information to make this decision.It will actually know what the State term ofimprisonment is. I'm not here to advocate that the systemthat the Bureau of Prisons uses -- uses is perfect. JUSTICE ALITO: Why would the -- why wouldthe exact length of the sentence imposed by the Statecourt be relevant to the determination made by thesentencing judge? I thought the sentencing judge'sreasoning was that the -- the undischarged term of Officialimprisonment that was going to be imposed on the offensefor which probation had previously been granted andthere had been a violation of the probation, that thathad nothing to do with his subsequent Federal drugcharges, and, therefore, the Federal drug charges shouldrun consecutively to that but should be concurrent toany sentence imposed by the State court on the Statedrug charges. What -- you know, what's wrong with thatreasoning, and what additional insight relevant to thatreasoning would be obtained by waiting until after thesentence was imposed? MR. HAWKINS: Well, Your Honor, at the timethat the Federal judge passed this sentence, he had noidea what was going to happen in either case. But moreimportantly, with regard to the term of probation, theFederal judge had no idea whether that term was going tobe revoked, whether it would be modified, or whether hewould receive any sentence of -- of imprisonment at all. And in making the judgment on whether thoseterms should run concurrently or consecutively, YourHonor, (b) directs the court to look at the factorsof (a) in making that determination. And it wouldbe impossible to make that determination under (a)whether the sentence is adequate to deter, whether that Officialsentence protects the public, without knowing what thatState term of -- JUSTICE ALITO: Well, that's interesting. MR. HAWKINS: -- imprisonment actually is. JUSTICE ALITO: Do you think that the Bureauof Prisons is bound by those factors when they make thedecision later? MR. HAWKINS: Your Honor, the -- the Bureauof -- of Prisons is bound by the factors of (b), andseveral of those factors match up with the factors in(a). It has to look at the nature and circumstanceof the crime, the characteristics of the defendant. Ithas to look to the United States Sentencing Guidelines,and it also has to take in the view of what the Federaljudge believes should have happened. CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Where is -- MR. HAWKINS: To the extent -- CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Where is all thatthat you just read, that they're bound by all thesethings? Where do I find that? JUSTICE KENNEDY: It's (b). Is it citedin any of your briefs? Or pardon me. Is (b) setforth in any of the materials? I have it in front of me, but I -- is itin the Government's brief or -- Official MR. HAWKINS: Your Honor, I believe it isin -- in the Solicitor General's -- in the appendix tothe Solicitor General's brief, Your Honor. CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, I'm lookingat -- I guess I got this off -- somebody got this offline for me. I'm looking at the program statement ofthe Bureau of Prisons. And it says what the regionaldirectors are supposed to look at is the intent of theFederal sentencing court or the goals of the criminaljustice system. So, you've got some guy deciding whether thegoals of the criminal justice system require this personto serve an extra years or not. MR. HAWKINS: Well, Your Honor, I think thatwhat the -- the law requires is that the Bureau ofPrisons has to look at these factors under (b), andthose program statements are trying to define what thoseexact factors are. CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: I mean, doesn't itseem strange to you that a Federal bureaucrat sitting --a regional director -- and I guess there are about ahalf dozen of them -- sits somewhere and decides whethera defendant -- say there's a -year Federal sentence, a-year State sentence, and that person says, well, Ithink he ought to serve another years, or I think Officialhe's done. MR. HAWKINS: Well, Your Honor, to -- to beclear, I mean, Mr. Setser is going to have to serve a -- a -month term of imprisonment no matter what.But the bureaucrat that -- that you're talking about,the bureaucrat will be -- only be making thatdetermination after having the complete informationwhich the Federal judge -- CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, I know, but --but it's a big deal to be sentenced to, in myhypothetical, another years in prison. I don't carehow much information the bureaucrat has. MR. HAWKINS: Well, Your Honor, but stillthat -- that person has the -- has the informationbefore it, and it's also subject to judicial reviewunder . I would point out that there is a processwhere the petitioner can -- or the prisoner can ask forthis -- JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Well, it's judicialreview of what? Not of the -- not of whether that wasthe desire of the State court or not. Judicial reviewas to whether they abused their discretion. MR. HAWKINS: Yes, Your Honor. And Ibelieve that's -- that's the same discretion that thecourt has when its deciding a sentence on direct appeal. Official JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: So, you're going to makea bureaucrat equal to a judge in making the mostimportant decision that a defendant faces: how muchtime he should spend in jail. So, a bureaucrat, ratherthan a judge, decides whether he's going to tack on ayear and a half, , or , or whether he's going to letthe defendant serve it concurrently? MR. HAWKINS: Your Honor, again, it -- it'snot the who for us, but the when. And -- JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: It's not a -- it's not awho or when, because the State court judge'srecommendation is not binding on BOP. It has said thatrepeatedly, hasn't it? MR. HAWKINS: Your Honor, I'm aware of no -- JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Just answer thatquestion. Hasn't BOP said that a State courtrecommendation is not binding on it? MR. HAWKINS: That -- that is correct, YourHonor. But I would point to the fact that -- what that-- I mean -- I guess -- JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: So, it can't be just who-- it can't be just when. It's who's going to make thedecision. MR. HAWKINS: Well, yes, Your Honor. Butthe bureaucrat at least has all the information before Officialit. And if we go to look to -- JUSTICE SCALIA: Well, isn't it true thatthe bureaucrat used to make that decision not too longago? MR. HAWKINS: Yes, Your Honor. JUSTICE SCALIA: When we had a parolesystem. Before we had the sentencing guidelines, it wasup to the Bureau of Prisons whether to give parole ornot, right? MR. HAWKINS: Yes, Your Honor. JUSTICE SCALIA: Some bureaucrat in theBureau of Prisons, I guess. MR. HAWKINS: Yes, Your Honor, along withgood time credits -- JUSTICE SCALIA: It's not unthinkable. MR. HAWKINS: No, Your Honor, prior to thepassage of the SRA, the -- JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: But wasn't the SRApassed and this provision passed in part to take thatdecision away from the bureaucrat? MR. HAWKINS: Well, it was a -- it waspassed to take the decision away from the bureaucrat,that the courts could not order a Federal sentence torun concurrently with an undischarged State term ofimprisonment. That gave that power back to the court, Officialbut -- JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Well, let's answerJustice Scalia's point. Wasn't the SRA passed in partbecause of the dissatisfaction with the fact that theparole board used to make this decision, and they wantedto put it back in the hands of judges? MR. HAWKINS: Well, that's part of thereason, Your Honor, but in passage of , it alsohighlighted the fact that it was not seeking to takeaway the bureaucratic authority that the Bureau ofPrisons have for designation. And back to the -- JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: I don't know why ittakes away from them on that score. They can choosewhatever facility they want within the constraintsimposed by a judge in terms of the length of thesentence. MR. HAWKINS: Well, I mean -- I guess, yes,Your Honor, that is part of it, but that only comes intoplay when the first sentence does not apply and when thecourt does not have the requisite information. In ourestimation, it is better for the latter sentencingentity, that with the most sentencing information, to beable to make this -- this ultimate determination in --in looking at the Federal court's views, versus allowinga Federal judge who's prognosticating about what the Officialsentence might be and issue a binding order. And if there are no further questions, I'llreserve the remainder of my rebuttal time. CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, counsel. Mr. Jay. ORAL ARGUMENT OF WILLIAM M. JAY ON BEHALF OF THE RESPONDENT, IN SUPPORT OF THE PETITIONER MR. JAY: Mr. Chief Justice, and may itplease the Court: Federal district courts do decide how long adefendant should be in prison for his Federal crime, butfor many years, both before and after the SentencingReform Act, the Attorney General through the Bureau ofPrisons has decided where the sentence will be servedand when it shall commence. JUSTICE SCALIA: I'm not clear on what the-- what the Government's view of, whatever you want tocall it, inherent judicial sentencing power is. You --you -- before section was passed, there -- therewas the power on the part of the Federal courts todecide whether sentences should run concurrently orsequentially, right? MR. JAY: Not with a State sentence, YourHonor. Before section (a) was passed, a Federal Officialdistrict court had no authority to specify that itsFederal sentence should run concurrently with a Statesentence that the defendant was already serving. JUSTICE SCALIA: How do you know? MR. JAY: Well, that's -- JUSTICE SCALIA: I mean, it did not -- whatauthority it did have did not come from a statute,right? MR. JAY: Well, if it had had suchauthority, Justice Scalia, it would have overridden theAttorney General's authority. That's why we know itdidn't have it. That's why the -- JUSTICE SCALIA: Where is the AttorneyGeneral's authority prescribed? MR. JAY: The Attorney General'sauthority -- JUSTICE SCALIA: His authority to say wherethe sentence will be served? MR. JAY: Precisely, Justice Scalia. JUSTICE SCALIA: Oh, that's -- that seems tobe quite -- JUSTICE BREYER: If you look that up -- JUSTICE SCALIA: -- quite fanciful. JUSTICE BREYER: It's pretty interesting,because I did go back and look at the ' Senate report Officialon S., which was the whole reform from beginning toend, and my reading of that section suggests to me thatthey thought past practice was exactly what they wrotein this statute. All right. Now -- at least that's howI read it. Maybe I didn't read it carefully enough.But I thought they were thinking that the Federal judgedoes have the power to sentence concurrently orconsecutively with a term that a Federal court or aState court has imposed in the past, but -- but youcan't do this monkey business that they're -- I agreewith you on that. There was nothing about trying to makesomething concurrent or consecutive with a -- a Stateterm that hasn't yet been imposed. You couldn't do it;you can't do it; it just gets into a -- at least notwith a consecutive. MR. JAY: Well, let me see if I can answerboth Justice Scalia and Justice Breyer. There are casesthat we cite at page of our reply brief. Those samecases, Justice Breyer, you may want to look at theSenate report on the -- on what actually became section, page -- sorry -- page and note , whichsays that it changes the law. It recognized that thelaw -- specifically citing a Ninth Circuit decision,which we also cite in our brief, because the Attorney OfficialGeneral has the authority to designate any facility,Federal or State, and that's -- that is carried forwardtoday in section (b). Because the Attorney Generalhas the authority to designate any such facility, aFederal court before the passage of section (a) hadno authority to order that the Federal sentence commenceright away and that the defendant be allowed to serve itwhile also serving his -- State sentence. JUSTICE GINSBURG: He could recommend it.He could recommend it, could he not? MR. JAY: Absolutely, Justice Ginsburg. Hecould recommend it, just as he can today. And -- CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: You said Federal orState. Where does it say that in ? MR. JAY: Section (b), Your Honor. Ifyou look at subsection (b) -- CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Yes. MR. JAY: -- the second sentence, "theBureau may designate any available penal or correctionalfacility" -- skip forward a little bit -- "whethermaintained by the Federal Government or otherwise." JUSTICE KENNEDY: In other words, what thestatute does -- it's phrased in terms of place, but itreally has consequences as to time. Einstein would haveloved it: You can't define space without time. Official (Laughter.) JUSTICE KENNEDY: But -- but I take it thatit can also be retroactive. If you have a prisoner whohas served -- has been sentenced in the Federal system,then goes to the State and is serving in a Statefacility, he then comes back to the BOP, the BOP canretroactively say we designate the place of imprisonmentfor the last years as that State prison where you'vebeen serving and we credit you with time served; is thatthe way it works? MR. JAY: That is how it works. JUSTICE SCALIA: Nunc pro tunc, right? JUSTICE KENNEDY: That -- that's an amazinginterpretation. JUSTICE SCALIA: And you get that out ofthis -- this lean language here? JUSTICE KENNEDY: That's an amazinginterpretation of the statute, but I understand thatthat's the way it's being done. MR. JAY: That is the way it's being done,Justice Kennedy. Indeed, every time the bureaudesignates a Federal prison or a State prison, it'safter the person comes into Federal custody, except incases where the person voluntarily surrenders. CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Or -- or what if Officialit's a situation where he goes into one of these prisonsthat are run by a private entity, right? It sayswhether the Federal Government or otherwise, right? Andso, maybe the Federal Government -- I don't know howoften it might do it -- they -- you use facilities thatare privately run, right? MR. JAY: Privately run -- CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Okay. So, why -- MR. JAY: -- State facilities, Federalfacilities. CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: -- isn't that whatthey meant when they said "whether maintained by theFederal Government or otherwise"? I think if theywanted to say State or Federal, that's what they wouldhave said. MR. JAY: Mr. Chief Justice, Federalinmates, since the passage of the first Federal crime in, have served their time in State prisons. Therewere no Federal penitentiaries for more than years.The attorney -- service of a Federal sentence in Stateprison was the norm, even after the construction of --of Federal penitentiaries. JUSTICE ALITO: It seems to me that thequestion of how long someone should spend in prison,which is what's involved in determining whether -- Officialdeciding whether a sentence is going to be servedconsecutively or concurrently, is very different fromdetermining where the sentence is going to be -- where asentence is going to be served. Isn't this a very strange reading of -- of, to say that that grants the BOP the authority tomake this concurrent/consecutive determination? MR. JAY: I don't think so at all, JusticeAlito. Let me give two reasons why. The first is thatbefore section was enacted, this -- the predecessorof this statute, which was section , was the reasonthat Federal courts recognized that they didn't have thepower to prescribe concurrent treatment of a Federalsentence with a previously existing State sentence.That's one point. The second point is, as Mr. Hawkinsmentioned, the quantum of Federal punishment, apunishment for the Federal offense, that's up to theFederal district judge to prescribe; but where -- wherethat time will be served and whether the time has tocommence before, after, or during the defendant'sservice of another sentence, that's a where and whenquestion. And where and when questions have always beenup to the Attorney General. JUSTICE KAGAN: Mr. Jay? Official MR. JAY: Yes. JUSTICE KAGAN: Can I -- can I take you backto ? So, talks about these two situations,simultaneously imposed terms and undischarged terms, andlet's assume that all three sentences talk about onlythose two situations. The premise of your argument isthat, in talking about those two situations, Congressrejected judicial authority when it came to a thirdsituation. And I guess I want to find out from you whythat is. I mean, I want to stipulate, I guess, thatnobody had this third situation in mind. The thirdsituation is a very uncommon situation. And so, justassume with me that Congress simply just wasn't thinkingabout this third situation. That's an assumption of thequestion. What should we do, then? Why would we treatthis as exclusive? MR. JAY: Well, I will -- I will assume withyou, Justice Kagan, although you know that I disagree,that the -- that this is conscious. But two points:First, there was no inherent authority beforehand. So,Congress couldn't have been carrying forward existingpractice, because, as I've said, there was no inherentauthority for district courts to make this decisionbefore. Official JUSTICE KAGAN: Well, let's just sayCongress just didn't know. It was not on Congress'sradar screen. Why would we treat this as exclusive asto this third situation? MR. JAY: You would do it this way becausethe -- because the limitations are so clear and because,as Mr. Hawkins said, there's a universe with sort ofthree possible relationships. Either the Federal termcomes before the State term, after the State term, ortwo Federal sentences can come at the same time. So,Congress prescribed very carefully that if one of thoseor if the second of those is met, then the terms may runconcurrently or consecutively. But by allowing thethird, the only other possibility -- JUSTICE KAGAN: Well, now you're battling myassumption. You're suggesting that Congress must havehad this third situation in mind. But I'm saying, no,the third situation is peculiar, and Congress didn'thave it in mind. Then what? MR. JAY: Well, its peculiarity, JusticeKagan, doesn't take away from the fact that if you letthis situation in, then the limitations have no meaning,because if -- you know, if -- JUSTICE BREYER: You're talkinglinguistically, but I thought one Congress probably did Officialhave it in mind. I agree with you about that. Butleave that out. How do you do it? You are a Federaljudge. The point of the Federal guideline is to createa sentence with qualifications that reflects the realconduct in the world that the defendant engaged in. Allright? So, we work that out. That's now years. Now, our problem is that the State judge mayeat up some of that years or may make the sentenceconcurrent when it should be consecutive, because theconduct's different. So, I, the Federal judge, say:You are convicted of a drug crime; you get years. Iknow there's a question here about whether there's aseparate gun crime. That's State. Now, I want these years to run consecutive with the State conviction for aseparate behavior. Okay? Now, that's what I want. Now, if it's in the past, the Statesentence, I can do it. But where it hasn't beenhappening yet, how do I do it? I say I want itconsecutive, but the State court judge who later willhave control of the case can say: I put my extra years and make it concurrent with the State sentence. You see? It's a problem. It's a practicalproblem. Now, maybe I'm wrong in what I've just said,which is why I said it, because I'm prepared to have youtell me I'm wrong, there is no practical problem. But I Officialwant to hear it. MR. JAY: It's not a practical problem,Justice Breyer, for a couple of reasons. (Laughter.) JUSTICE BREYER: All right. Good. MR. JAY: Number one -- JUSTICE BREYER: That's why I asked. MR. JAY: Number one, the judge doesn'tknow -- you asked -- you asked us to assume that therehas been a conviction in the State, maybe just not -- JUSTICE BREYER: No -- MR. JAY: Maybe just not -- JUSTICE BREYER: There has not been aconviction. MR. JAY: That just highlights my point.There hasn't been a conviction yet, let alone asentence. There may never be a conviction, and -- butif the judge wants to guard against that eventuality,the judge can make a recommendation. And there are twosalutary things about making a recommendation ratherthan a judgment. JUSTICE BREYER: How does the judge stop theState court judge later from making his conviction for aseparate form of behavior run concurrently with theFederal sentence? How does he stop that? What power Officialdoes he have over State courts? MR. JAY: I don't think I or either of myfriends who are going to argue today or -- aresuggesting that the Federal judge has power to order theState court not to do something. JUSTICE BREYER: Correct. Then how can hestop it? MR. JAY: Well, the way that sovereigns workout who gets to punish defendants -- JUSTICE BREYER: My point -- MR. JAY: -- if they both want to punish -- JUSTICE BREYER: You may have missed mypoint. My point is because he can't stop it is whyyou're right in this case. MR. JAY: I am delighted to hear that youthink we're right, Justice Breyer. But -- (Laughter.) MR. JAY: But I want to -- I do want to giveyou an answer to your question about why this is not apractical problem. The Federal judge can give -- canmake a recommendation that says if he's convicted and ifhe's sentenced to a particular term in the State court,I recommend that the Bureau of Prisons not let him servethem -- concurrently. CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: So that -- so that Official years later after the defendant has served hismandatory minimum sentence, your friend in the Bureau ofPrisons regional office is supposed to go look back andsee what the judge said years ago? MR. JAY: Judges make recommendations allthe time, Mr. Chief Justice. They -- there is a sectionof the -- CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: I don't think thatis responsive to the point I just made, that they makerecommendations all the time. I'm talking about theeffectiveness of the recommendation years later. MR. JAY: As the Court is aware, theAdministrative Office's standard form for the judgmentin a criminal case allows the judge to makerecommendations to the Bureau of Prisons. So, this willbe in the judgment, the very judgment that the Bureau ofPrisons will be looking at, whether it's a week later or years later. And if -- JUSTICE GINSBURG: Mr. Jay, what does the"or" mean? Maybe the judge -- it was years ago;maybe the judge said nothing. Nevertheless, it's: Whatwas the intent of the sentencing court or the goals ofthe criminal justice system? MR. JAY: Your Honor is reading from theBureau of Prisons policy statement. Official JUSTICE GINSBURG: Uh-huh. MR. JAY: If you go on in that policystatement, it alludes to other considerations that thebureau looks at. And what that maps onto is the factorsin section (b). And I can represent to the Courtthat when -- when the -- when an inmate asks forconcurrent treatment in this fashion, the bureau'scentral facility for designation and sentencecomputation goes through those factors in anindividualized way and makes a -- makes a decision.That then is reviewable. JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Mr. Jay -- JUSTICE GINSBURG: Do they take -- do theytake account of the -- the defendant's behavior in theState facility? Is that a factor? MR. JAY: It can -- in Federal or Statecustody, Justice Ginsburg, it may be a factor. Yes. JUSTICE GINSBURG: Which is something thatthe judge couldn't know. MR. JAY: That -- that's certainly correct.And on the flip side is that if the defendant hasbehaved in an exemplary way, then either the judge --the judge may indeed change his recommendation. We'vecited a case in our brief where the -- where a judge -- JUSTICE SCALIA: I thought we tried to get Officialrid of all of that when we abolished the parole system.I thought we tried to take away from the bureaucrats thedecision to let somebody out earlier because he's been agood boy and hold him longer because he hasn't. MR. JAY: Mr. Setser has been sentenced to months for his Federal crime. Nothing the AttorneyGeneral does is going to shorten that in a way notauthorized by statute. It's not -- it doesn't make thesentence an indeterminant one. It's about where he'sgoing to serve it. CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: I suppose -- JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Mr. Jay, there is someforce to your -- to Petitioner's argument thatfederalism should be respected, that Federal courts andthe State judges and their individual wishes should berespected and followed by BOP actually. The systemyou're proposing actually takes away from both Federaljudges control over the sentencing decision. If Federal judges recommend the consecutivesentence, then the State judge can take that intoaccount in setting how much time they think is warrantedfor their crime in addition or different from, and thejudge -- if he wants it to run concurrently the wayJustice Breyer said, he could just give a zero. Heknows what the Federal judge wants. Official CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: You may answerbriefly. JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: The bottom line -- MR. JAY: Thank you, Mr. Chief Justice. The -- the State judge can still know whatthe Federal judge recommends. If it's not -- it justwon't be binding under our view of the statute. And inany event, having the -- the second decisionmaker makethe decision armed with all the information is stillpreferable to having a premature determination lockedin, in a judgment. CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, counsel. MR. JAY: Thank you, Mr. Chief Justice. CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Mr. Young. ORAL ARGUMENT OF EVAN A. YOUNG ON BEHALF OF AMICUS CURIAE, IN SUPPORT OF THE JUDGMENT BELOW MR. YOUNG: Mr. Chief Justice, and may itplease the Court: As this Court stated nearly a century ago inEx parte United States, under our constitutional systemthe right to impose the punishment provided by law isjudicial. Congress does not transfer such coreauthority from one branch to another without clearly and Officialexpressly saying so. Neither section nor any otherprovision of the Sentencing Reform Act even remotelyapproaches the clarity that Congress would use if itintended to restrict judicial sentencing in cases likeSetser's. JUSTICE SCALIA: The Government says thatthe Federal courts never had that power anyway, so thatnothing is being restricted. And they contest the casesthat you've cited as demonstrating the existence of thatpower in the situation involved here to -- to determinewhether a future -- a sentence to be imposed in thefuture by State courts will be concurrent or consecutivewith the Federal one. MR. YOUNG: Against -- that is wrong,because against a number of cases that we cite -- and Iwould commend them to the Court -- in which Federaljudges previous to the Sentencing Reform Actanticipatorily sentenced, the Government and Mr. Setserhave provided zero cases before the Sentencing Reform -- JUSTICE BREYER: Nobody found that out in -- in or '. If you look through the Senatereport on that, they don't refer to any of those cases.They write it as if it was just as Justice Scalia andthe -- and the Government said. And, honestly, my question really is the Officialsame one -- maybe I didn't put it clearly, but I thinkyou understood it -- that the reason that they want theFederal judge to be able to shape his sentence in lightof other sentences that either the Federal courts or theState courts have given in the past is because you cando it so that a single behavior gets a single sentenceand a different behavior is going to be sentencedconsecutively, presumptively. But you just can't do that where the Statecourt hasn't yet acted, because -- at least you can't doit in the consecutive case, because the State courtjudge sees what you did, and he may decide: I don'twant it to be consecutive. So, here I am; I write in mysentence to be served concurrently with the Federalcourt sentence. Now, you can have every agency you want inthe Federal Government, but there's no way to get aroundthat. You can't force that State judge to do somethingdifferent, and you can't muck around with your Federalsentence in a way that will make it consecutive to aState court sentence that says it's going to runconcurrent. So, there's a practical problem, and that'swhy it's left out. It's quite -- I mean, when Ifinished reading it, I thought this is very logical. Official MR. YOUNG: Your Honor, I think -- JUSTICE BREYER: Can you tell me what theanswer to that is? MR. YOUNG: I think the answer is that itturns much more on the order of imprisonment than theorder of sentencing, because the Federal court in Mr.Setser's case, for instance, is imposing no obligationwhatsoever on the State. The State imprisoned first -- JUSTICE BREYER: I don't deny that there aremany instances where you could get it to work,particularly where you're going concurrent. I do denythat there's -- it's all smooth sailing. There are alot of cases you can't get it to work. I don't want torepeat myself again. I've given you the example. Igave him the example. And I want to know how you wouldovercome that could be quite common situation where theState judge hasn't done it yet; so, there's no way torequire the Federal court sentence to be servedconsecutively, if the State judge decides it shouldn'tbe. MR. YOUNG: Well, let's take this very case,for instance. Mr. Setser was sentenced in Federal courtfirst, and the Federal court said: I see that there iscoming a State probation revocation. I want thisFederal sentence, which will be served last, to have no Officialcredit for whatever happens in State court. JUSTICE BREYER: He can do that. MR. YOUNG: And that's all he did do. JUSTICE BREYER: Oh, I know. MR. YOUNG: That's all that matters -- JUSTICE BREYER: I don't deny there can besome. I say there is a concern that if he were to sayin a different case, I want the gun thing which is goingto State court to be consecutive, that he can't controlthat. Because the State court judge could say I want mygun sentence, State, to run concurrently with Federal. MR. YOUNG: What the State judge could notdo is to say I want this State sentence, which is goingto be served first, to run concurrent to thelater-served Federal sentence. Because that wouldrequire the Federal sovereign to let someone go. JUSTICE BREYER: Oh, well, now we're gettingawfully complicated. JUSTICE KAGAN: Mr. Young -- JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Actually, it becomeseasier than that. The State court can't force theFederal Bureau of Prisons to take the prisoner back,correct? MR. YOUNG: Can't force the Federal Bureauof Prisons to do anything. Release -- Official JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Exactly. And so, all itcan do is sentence the defendant to whatever time it'sgoing to sentence the defendant. The defendant servesthat time. Then the Federal sovereign takes over anddoes whatever the Federal judge said. MR. YOUNG: Precisely, and -- JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Runs it consecutively orconcurrently. Whatever the Federal judge said controlsin every situation. MR. YOUNG: The Bureau of Prisons caneffectuate that order very easily once that's happened. JUSTICE KAGAN: Mr. Young, the Governmentsays that there are three situations in which thisconsecutive/concurrent problem comes up. This statutedeals with two of them. And the Government wants --argues that in dealing with two of them, it impliedlystated a rule on the third. What's the best argument --what's your best argument against that? MR. YOUNG: I think the best argument isthat the statute plainly does not withdraw anyauthority. It doesn't describe it at all. What thestatute does -- in -- JUSTICE KAGAN: Well, I think that that'snot right. It seems to me that the first sentence ofthis statute grants authority to the courts in these two Officialsituations. And the second and third say what happenswhen that authority isn't exercised. The question I'mstruggling with -- and it's the same question I put toMr. Jay -- is why we should think that the grant ofauthority over situation A and situation B is a denialof authority over situation C? So, what's your bestargument? MR. YOUNG: Well, my best argument, assumingthe premise that it's a grant, which I think is not thebest way to read it, but if it's a grant of authority,still the correct answer is it says nothing at all aboutthe anticipatory context. And Congress must speakclearly if it will withdraw power from the courts. JUSTICE GINSBURG: Well, it does to thisextent: If it's two -- if the second sentence thathasn't yet been imposed, but there's an indictment inanother Federal court, if there's two consecutiveprosecutions, the first judge can't say I want mysentence to run consecutive to the one that may or maynot be imposed by another Federal judge. That would notbe possible, right? MR. YOUNG: I think it would not bepossible. JUSTICE GINSBURG: So, why should it -- ifthe order is one way for successive Federal Officialprosecutions, why should it be different when the secondprosecution, instead of being Federal, is State? MR. YOUNG: For several reasons, one ofwhich is -- I think it ties into Justice Breyer'squestion. If the Federal judge sentences first andimprisons first, it could not impose a consecutive orconcurrent term as to the later-served State sentenceeither. The first imposed Federal sentence willpresumably be served first in the same Bureau ofPrisons. And so, there's nothing for it yet to beconsecutive or concurrent to. A second answer is that all Federalsentences are served under the jailer of the samesovereign, the Federal; whereas in the anticipatorycontext, we have two different systems. And so, thefirst sentencing federal judge is the only judge thatcan compel the jailer of the Federal sovereign to eithercredit or not to credit; whereas in the Federal/Federalsystem, under the statute, the second judge isexplicitly given the power to alter the default rule.So, in all Federal cases, either a default rule or ajudge will determine whether or not a credit should begiven to the defendant. JUSTICE GINSBURG: But it will be the secondjudge. Official MR. YOUNG: The second Federal judge can doit, but the second State judge cannot, because thisstatute can neither empower the State judge -- JUSTICE GINSBURG: But the State judge candecide what's going to happen to the second sentence. MR. YOUNG: If the second sentence is servedsecond. But as in this case and many others, the secondsentence is served first. And, consequently, the secondsentencing judge, the State judge in Mr. Setser's case,has no power to determine whether or not that sentence,which will be served first, will be consecutive orconcurrent. JUSTICE GINSBURG: What do you do -- MR. YOUNG: And I know there's a lot offirsts and seconds going on here, but the point is -- JUSTICE GINSBURG: But what do you do withthe -- the argument that the judge who anticipates asecond sentence may be wrong? He doesn't know what thatwill be. And when I asked, how does the bureau makethese judgments -- does it take into account the conductof the prisoner in the State facility -- that'ssomething that the judge who sentences first can'tpossibly know. MR. YOUNG: It's true, but the sameprisoner -- if the State sentence had happened Officialminutes before the Federal sentence, the Federal judgewould have plenary authority to impose a consecutivesentence, even though it would be served last. And allof that conduct that will happen in the State systemwould be irrelevant. The sentence happened at the timeof sentencing. Now, there is a statutory provision thatdoes describe exactly how the Bureau of Prisons shouldinteract with the courts in the context of a sentencethat needs to be changed, and that's section (c).And in that statute, the -- the judge will remain thedecider because the Bureau of Prisons goes as apetitioner and says to the court there are compellingand extraordinary reasons to modify this sentence. And then the court, always in the positionof the decider and using the section (a) factors,will decide whether or not the Bureau of Prisons'petition should be granted. But never in any statute isthe Bureau of Prisons given the authority to use thesentencing factors under section . And, in fact, the sentencing factors thatthe Government contends would allow it to make asentencing determination under section , page a ofthe Government's merits brief, starts off with the verypreliminary requirement. And I'll read from the second Officialsentence of (b): "The Bureau may designate anyavailable penal or correctional facility that meetsminimum standards of health and habitability establishedby the Bureau." Which means that if this is the powerthat the Bureau of Prisons has to make a sentenceconcurrent, a State prisoner in a true hellhole wouldnot be able to get a concurrent sentence. The personmost in need of that judicial mercy would be precludedby statute if we subject this statute to anything likethe textual rigor that the Government wants to subject to. Plainly, what (b) does is articulate aset of principles that allows the Bureau of Prisons todecide to which prisons defendants should go, not howlong they must stay there. That is an element ofpunishment, which is quintessentially judicial. ThisCourt said in Ex parte United States -- it's been quotedand cited by courts across this country for a hundredyears. And, in fact, in that case, it was said to be sohistorically established that it hardly merited comment.And now -- JUSTICE BREYER: Well, I'd be a littleworried in this case at deciding whether section -- whatis that section -- the place of imprisonment, section(b), whether that does or does not give the power to Officialthe Bureau of Prisons, the power that they've assumedfor many, many years. Do we have to decide thatquestion here? I didn't realize I was deciding that. Ithought I was just deciding whether -- whether thejudge, the sentencing judge, has the power to impose,say, a consecutive sentence, say my sentence will runconsecutively to a State court sentence that has not yetbeen imposed. I thought that was all I had to decide. MR. YOUNG: That is all you have to decide,but in so deciding, you're confronting the argument thatthe Government makes which is: No, no; Congress hasexclusively vested this sentencing function in us. JUSTICE BREYER: I don't think you have to.I mean, maybe we do have to get to that. JUSTICE SCALIA: Well, somebody has to makethat call. MR. YOUNG: Should it be the judge or thejailer? JUSTICE SCALIA: I mean, if you say -- it'seither the judge or the jailer. There's nobody -- whoelse is going to make it? MR. YOUNG: That's precisely the point. Andthe argument -- JUSTICE SCALIA: So, if you say the judgecan't, it's going to be the Bureau of Prisons. Official MR. YOUNG: Precisely. And to say thatCongress has never given it to the Bureau of Prisonsnecessarily means that it is the judge. JUSTICE BREYER: Well, let me ask you thisthen: Is it -- is it -- if we want the judge to be ableto say this particular prisoner will serve his Federalsentence after the State gun sentence is served or,alternatively, with the State gun sentence, the says that -- that the judge can, if that sentence, Statesentence, has not yet been imposed, we don't know whatit is -- we don't know if it will be imposed. We don'tknow what they're going to say. We don't know whetherthey're going to sentence him to -- count his time, timeserved in the Federal jail. I mean, I don't know whatthey're going to say in Federal prison. But he can write down what he wants, as ()is "any statement by the court that imposed thesentence." A statement "concerning the purposes forwhich the sentence of imprisonment" has been imposed.You would say I'm trying to get a single behaviorpunished once with years, and then that separatebehavior I would like punished by years more. Okay? So, you write it down and the Bureau ofPrisons follows it. And if they don't follow it, theycould get reversed by a district court, abuse of Officialdiscretion. Now, will that solve the problem. MR. YOUNG: It doesn't, Your Honor, becausewhat that factor allows the Bureau of Prisons to do isto decide, based upon the judgment here, is this someonewho needs to be in the super-max or is it someone thatcan be in a much more minimum security type prison? None of this has anything to do with thedetermination of how long someone should spend inprison, years, years. The Government says it'sall the same; you'll serve your Federal prison term. Itdoesn't seem that from the perspective of an identicallysituated person who will spend years rather than years of his life in prison. JUSTICE SCALIA: Am -- am I correct, Mr.Young, that if -- if the Federal sentencing judge iserroneous in his prediction of what the State courtlater sentencing will do, that his order, based uponthat erroneous prediction, can be altered upon appeal bythe Bureau of Prisons? MR. YOUNG: That's correct. And the onlysituation in which a prisoner would be harmed is if theFederal judge says, I want it to be consecutive, andthen the Bureau of Prisons comes in later, yearslater after he is done with the State term, let's say,and says, boy, we would have made this concurrent, and Officialhere are all reasons why. Congress has provided a meansto do that, section (c). Go to the Federal court asthe petitioner, not the decider. Congress did notunilaterally give the Bureau of Prisons the power it isnow claiming. And so, for that reason -- CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: I'm interested inpursuing the point Justice Breyer raised. I am troubledby the idea that someone in the Bureau of Prisons makesthis determination, but I -- I wonder how that -- howthat helps you. You said it's either the jailer or thejudge, and, therefore, you do have to decide it. Butmaybe it's either the first judge or the second judge. MR. YOUNG: In -- in -- CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Why -- why isn't --doesn't it make sense to say that the Federal courtdoesn't -- whoever is second can always tailor theirsentence to what they want. Whoever is first just hasto give the sentence that he or she thinks isappropriate. MR. YOUNG: Because in the dual sovereigntycontext, that second sentencing judge cannot compel theFederal sovereign to either reduce -- CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Doesn't compel --no, doesn't compel the Federal sovereign. He would say: OfficialLook, I want to give years. MR. YOUNG: Right. CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: I see you've alreadygot, you know, a -- a -year sentence under theFederal, but I don't want it to be years. So, I'mgoing to, in fact, just give you a -year sentence. Do understand what I'm making -- MR. YOUNG: Yes. CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Whoever the secondjudge is can figure out exactly how long he thinks thesentence should run and give a sentence accordingly. MR. YOUNG: That cannot be the case if it'sa State court and the State court does not know, withrespect to a later-served Federal sentence, whether ornot the time will be credited. So, in other words, inyour example -- JUSTICE KENNEDY: Well, but I suppose in theChief's example a super-cautious State court judge wouldsay: I see you've got a -year sentence here. I don'tknow if it's going to be concurrent or consecutive. So,I'll sentence you to nothing at all. I mean, I suppose -- which shows thatthere -- if -- if you follow your rule, you may beinfringing on the Federal balance, but then you wouldsay the BOP can do the same thing. Official MR. YOUNG: In the case in which the -- theState judge says, I want it to be zero, then we knowthat the State relinquishes its custody. And whateverhappens later in Federal prison, a pardon, let's say, ora reversal, that's -- that's gone and done for the Stateno longer has the claim on him. They've sentenced himto zero. If the State judge knows, however, that theFederal court has sentenced someone to years and itwill be consecutive because it's served last to whateverthe State judge imposes, the State judge now is in aposition, and only in that situation, is in a positionto say, okay, if I give you years, you will spend ,because I know that the Federal sentence will beconsecutive. On the other hand, if the curtain is onlypulled up by the Bureau of Prisons at the end and theState judge says I want you to have years, I'llsentence you to , and the Bureau of Prisons pulls upthe curtain, it's concurrent. Then only years hasbeen sentenced. JUSTICE KENNEDY: Well, you're saying thatyour position is really more consistent with the Federalbalance because it allows the State to know what it'sdeal with? Official MR. YOUNG: Precisely. The only way toreally respect the second sentencing State judge is toprovide clarity, rather than to force that State judgeto guess, to sentence in the dark, about what willactually happen to this defendant later on when heeventually, after State confinement, is transported tothe Federal prisons. This case is only about that situation inwhich the first sentence is imposed by the Federalcourt, but before the Federal sentence is enforced, allof the State -- that's why the Federal bookends, Idescribe it. We start with the Federal sentence, and weend with the imposition, the service of the Federalservice. And in between those two things, the Statesentencing and imprisonment occurs. And so, the Statejudge cannot make his sentence be concurrent orconsecutive to the Federal sentence, because the Federalsentence hasn't been imposed yet. Consequently --hasn't been served yet. Consequently, providing thatState judge with knowledge about what will happen is theonly way to give that State judge the respect the Statejudge needs and requires to be able to implement Stategoals in a meaningful way. Otherwise, it's a guess. As you heard, the Bureau of Prisons does not Officialfollow, as a matter of course, a second sentencing Statejudge's preference that it be concurrent or consecutive.That is something that the Bureau of Prisons, asresponsive to the Federal courts, Federal sovereign,will decide based upon what happens in the Federalcourt. JUSTICE ALITO: This is perhaps somethingthat I should have asked the Solicitor General, but doyou have any idea how often this situation comes up? MR. YOUNG: I don't have specific numbers.It's difficult to find them, but I think it'sincreasing. And the reason for that is the explosion ofFederal criminal law. There's still far more State andlocal law enforcement officers in this country. And thedoctrine why these -- why these sentences can be imposedfirst but served last is because of the primary custodyrule. Because a local or State law enforcement officerwill most likely arrest someone whose act will violatethe laws of both sovereigns, that person will be inState custody. We now have so many more offenses under theFederal Criminal Code than we did even back whenCongress passed the Sentencing Reform Act, which goes,perhaps, to Justice Kagan's point. Congress may notreally have been thinking about this at all. Official JUSTICE KAGAN: So, is there evidence oneway or the other on that question, whether thissituation was in any meaningful sense before theCongress? MR. YOUNG: Everything is silent. I thinkit was not. As to the question about whether courtscould impose concurrent consecutive sentences, what thereport says, footnotes , , , pages , ,and of the sentencing report, there were some courtsthat thought that a prior statute stopped them fromimposing only concurrent sentences in the dualsovereignty context. Congress made very clear -- in fact, itcited by name United States v. Segal, one of the casesthe Government cites for this proposition, as beingincorrect. We want to make it clear, Congress says in areport, you can impose concurrent sentences, but allalong consecutive sentences were imposed anticipatorily. And so, this is sort of like, you know, therule that someone cannot have M&M's at all being held tomean that you cannot have candy after dinner if you haveSnickers after dinner every night. Once you remove theobstacle to having M&M's, then presumably you can havethem after dinner as well. There was no rule that youcouldn't have candy after dinner. Official There was no rule that Federal courts couldnot sentence anticipatorily. There was simply astatutory bar that some courts thought stopped them fromimposing concurrent sentences in the dual sovereigntycontext. JUSTICE ALITO: Well, in order for you toprevail, I think we -- is it correct, we would have todetermine that there was this authority inherent in thejudiciary prior to the enactment of this statute? MR. YOUNG: I don't think that that isnecessarily true. I think it makes it much easier. Andthere can be no question that concurrent and consecutivesentencing is inherently and quintessentially judicial.This court in Oregon v. Ice only two terms ago regardedit that way. JUSTICE ALITO: Yes, with respect to Federalsentences, certainly that's true. But with respect toFederal and State sentences, it may be, as yousuggested, that this just didn't come up very oftenuntil the enactment probably of the Federal drug lawsand -- and a few other statutes that created offenseswhere you have -- where the same conduct wouldconstitute a violation of both Federal and State law.And so, you have this situation coming up with greaterfrequency. Official MR. YOUNG: That's true. With greaterfrequency, it did happen, and the courts recognized thisand, without any concern, sentenced anticipatorily. JUSTICE KAGAN: But -- but if one had -- youknow, what I take as the view of Justice Alito'squestion is that there was no -- no practice supportingcourts sentencing in this way. It -- it just wasn'tdone. Mostly, it wasn't on anybody's radar screen thatthis was a significant issue. What would we do then, ifwe thought Congress didn't speak to it, but we alsodidn't see a past practice inconsistent with what theGovernment is suggesting? MR. YOUNG: In that case, if the choice isbetween the judge and the jailer, I think the choice isclear. If Congress did not specifically say thatsomething as quintessentially judicial as deciding howlong someone would spend in prison must be decided bythe executive branch, questionable whether it could, butunless it explicitly said this is how we want it tohappen, there can be no doubt that imposing extrapunishment or withdrawing punishment is so judicial innature that, even if Congress didn't think about it andexplicitly address the problem, the tie certainly has togo to the judge. JUSTICE BREYER: No, it isn't a tie. It's Official-- I mean, there's one thing on each side. On your sideis the fact that the sentencing judge, Federal, istrying to figure out his own sentence, and he does --either he does want or he doesn't want that particularindividual to serve additional time, should a Statecourt judge later decide on some related or unrelatedmatter. All right? And if that were all that was at issue, andthe choice is between his saying -- just doing it,writing it in the sentence, or he's writing down hisreasons what he'd like to have happen and letting theBureau implement that as best they can under the sectionwe are talking about. That's on the one side. And thatsays let the judge do it; don't give the implementation. On the other side is to let the judge do itrisks complex interference with the second to sentence,who is the State court judge. It may be you're right that there's some wayof working it out, but it sounds complicated to me,particularly in -- in the consecutive case. So, we have federalism principles on onehand, versus the judge, versus the bureaucracy on theother. And so, it isn't so easy. That's -- that's whyI think this is not such an easy case. MR. YOUNG: Well, let me address what the Officialanticipatory sentencing, the Federal judge, how he couldpossibly interfere with the State. I don't think thathe can if the State is sentencing second and imprisoningfirst. JUSTICE BREYER: No, no. It's the Statecourt judge that wants to sentence a person to anunrelated offense -- MR. YOUNG: Right. JUSTICE BREYER: -- but he wants -- hedecides he wants it to run -- concurrently with the --ongoing Federal sentence. There's no way to stop it. MR. YOUNG: Well, the question -- that's --that's the key point. If it's an ongoing Federalsentence, I certainly agree. But the point here is hisFederal sentence hasn't begun. Setser doesn't begin toserve -- JUSTICE BREYER: All right. Then you -- butyou can't break this thing down. Either they have thepower in the Federal district court under thisparticular provision, with all its presumptions, to runthis mechanism, the one that's in the statute, inrespect to State court sentences that have not yet beenimposed or they do not have that power. We can't breakit down and say sometimes you have it, and sometimes youdon't. Official MR. YOUNG: If the State court sentence hasnot been imposed and will run second, a Federal courtcan say consecutive or concurrent, but it wouldn't haveany meaning. Just as the State court, if it had triedto bar the Federal Bureau of Prisons from keepingsomeone, would have no meaning. There's nothing for itto be consecutive or concurrent to, if it's the firstsentence being served. And so, in -- in that regard, I think thekey point is a Federal court cannot say, I'm the firstjudge to sentence and my sentence will immediatelybegin; I want it to be consecutive to another State -- afuture State sentence. It wouldn't mean anything,because the State would get that prisoner after hesatisfied his Federal term, and the State can do what itwants. Let him go, keep him longer. That's the dualsovereignty principle. CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: It can't -- itcan't if, for example, they're dealing with a mandatoryminimum. Right? If the State court judge has tosentence the person to years, then your explanationfalls apart. MR. YOUNG: If State law has a particularrequirement as Federal law in some cases -- (c)does -- then that's the way dual sovereignty works as Officialwell. But there is never a situation in which a Statejudge is worse off by having the knowledge of what theFederal court will sentence -- has sentenced and howthat sentence will be imposed. Again, if there's a problem with it, theBureau of Prisons has a way to solve it, and it'sthrough section (c). It's not through a unilateraldetermination, years later perhaps, seeking theadvice of a judge. Maybe the advice of the judge isprovided at the time of sentencing. And if it can dothat, there's no reason why it couldn't be an order thatcan be enforced rather than a piece of advice that isgiven at the time of sentencing. Judges decide how much punishment someoneshould receive. In Federal court, Federal judges decidehow long someone should spend in the Federal Bureau ofPrisons. State courts can't do it, but they can adjustsentences within the strictures of State law to accountfor what they know is coming if Federal courts are ableto provide that advice. And if they cannot decide that issue andadvise the State court judge of what will happen, thenthere are situations that will occur when the Bureau ofPrisons administers these sentences, and there's noquestion about that either. But the point is there is Officialnever a situation in which a judge, able and willing --able to follow the section (a) factors and willingto impose that sentence, is doing something that will beworse for the defendant or worse for the States than ifhe does not do it. You contrast the -- the two situations thattwo equally situated people would be in. On the onehand, sentencing in open court by an Article III judgesubject to the section (a) factors with directreview in the courts for reasonableness. On the otherhand, sentencing by administrator without any of thosesalutary procedural protections, without direct reviewin the courts, and based on factors that determine towhich prison someone should go, not how long they muststay there for purposes of punishment. And for that reason alone, if for noneother, the Court should affirm the judgment because itallows district judges, subject to their wise exerciseand sound exercise of discretion, to make thesesentences to clarify things upfront for everyone: thedefendant, the State courts, and the Bureau of Prisons. Twenty years, this country has had half ofthe circuits following this practice, and there's notone case cited on the other side showing that anymal-administration of justice has resulted, any lack of Officialclarity, any problems with respect to how thesesentences are enforced. And that's because it does the opposite.Allowing judges who are able, in cases like Setser's, nomatter how much time the State gives for probationrevocation, no Federal credit should be given to it. Heknows enough. He knows everything he needs to know tomake that sentence. He made it. It's effectuated bythe Bureau of Prisons. The Government has not said oncethat it cannot enforce that sentence. And to the extent that Setser wishes tochallenge how the Bureau of Prisons credits the Stateorder, the mechanism to do that is to exhaust hisadministration -- administrative remedies in the BOP andthen seek judicial review to determine whether thatcalculation was done rationally and fairly. This appeal is not the place for that. Thisappeal is to determine whether district courts neverhave such authority. I thank the Court. CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, counsel. Mr. Hawkins, you have minutes remaining. REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF JASON D. HAWKINS ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONER MR. HAWKINS: Thank you. Official Justice Breyer, if I could go back to yourhypothetical, I think that the way that the Federaljudge can get this accomplished is simply by waiting. After -- after the -- the conviction, YourHonor, they can send a State prisoner back down to Statecourt, allow for that State sentence to be imposed, andthen he can come back into Federal custody. And in thatsituation, that is when the court has the authority toissue this binding order. That is the -- because it hasall of the information. And -- and I would also -- JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: That's preferable, toclog the judicial system with untold number of Federalconvictions that have not been reduced to judgment?That's preferable to giving judges or recognizing theirpower to state their views up front? MR. HAWKINS: Your Honor, the judge canstate the views -- her views up front in arecommendation. It cannot do so if it doesn't know allthe facts. It cannot bind -- JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Could you tell me whatfacts would affect the sentence here? The judge herevery clearly believed that some of the State chargesoverlapped and some didn't. And so, it ran someconsecutive to one set of State charges and concurrent Officialto the other. What are the facts with respect to thedefendant that the Federal court needed to know? MR. HAWKINS: Your Honor, I think in lookingat , it may well seem reasonable for the Federalcourt to have done this, but the -- the fact is, is thatCongress drew a bright line, and he has to be subject tothis undischarged term of imprisonment. CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, counsel. MR. HAWKINS: Thank you. CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: The case issubmitted. (Whereupon, at : a.m., the case in theabove-entitled matter was submitted.) Aable : :: : :: ::, :abolished :above-entitled: :Absolutely:abuse :abused :accomplished:account :: ::ACE :act : ::, ::acted :addition :additional :address :::adequate :adjust :administersadministration::administrative: :administrator::advice :,,advise :advocate :affect :affirm :agency :ago : :,: :agree : ::Alito : :,:, :: : ::Alito's :allow : :: :allowed :allowing :: :allows :: :: :alludes :alter :altered :alternatively::amicus :: :answer :: :: :: :,: :anticipates:anticipatorily: :: :anticipatory: ::anybody's :anyway :apart :appeal :: :,appendix :applies :apply :appointed :approaches :appropriateamazing ::OfficialOfficial:argue :argues :arguing :argument ::,,, :: : :: ::,,:, ::, :armed :arrest :Article :articulate :asked :,,: :asks :Assistant :assume :,: :assumed :assumes :assuming :assumption: :attorney ::,,: :: ::Austin :authority :: ::,,,:,,:,, ::,,: :,:,,,:, :: :authorized :available ::aware ::awfully :a.m : ::Bb : :back : :: :: : :: ::,,balance ::bar : :based :,: :battling :bear :beginning :begun :behalf :,,: : :: :behaved :behavior :: ::, ::believe :: : ::, ::believed :believes :best :,,:,,:better :,:big :bind : :binding :: :: :bit :board :bookends :BOP :,:, :: ::bottom :bound : :,:boy : :branch ::break :,Breyer :,:, ::,,,,: :,:, :: :,:,,,: :: :: :,: :Breyer's :brief : ::, ::briefly :briefs :bright :bureau :,:,, :,:, :: :: :: ::,,,: :,: :: :,:, ::,, :: :,:,,:, :: :: : Official: :,: ::,bureaucracy:bureaucrat: :,: :,: :,:,bureaucratic:bureaucrats:bureau's :business :CC : : :calculation:call : :candy :,care : :carefully ::carried :carrying :case :, :: :: :: :: :,: :,:, :: :: :,: :,cases :,: :,:,,: :: ::central :century :certainly :: ::challenge :change :changed :changes :characteristics:charges :,,:,Chief :, :: :,: :,:, ::,,: :,: :,:,,,:,,:, :: :,Chief's :choice :,:choose :Circuit :circuits ::circumstancecircumstances::cite :,:cited : :: :: :cites :citing :claim :claiming :clarify :clarity : ::clear : :: :,:clearly :: ::clog :Code :come : :: ::comes :: :,: :: :coming :: :commence: ::commend :comment :common :compel ::,,compellingcomplete :::complex :complicated: :computationconcern :::concerning:concerns :conclusion :concurrent :: ::, :: :: ::, ::, :: :: ::,,:, :,:concurrently: : :: :: :: :: :: :: :: :concurrent/co...:conduct :: ::conduct's :confinement:confronting::,,:,,,: :: :: ::, :: :,: :,: :Congress's :conscious :consecutive:, ::, :: :,: ::, :: :: :: ::, :: :,: ::,,:Congress :constructionconsecutively: : ::, :: :: :: :consecutive/co...:consequence :consequences:consequently: :,considerations:consistent :constitute :constitutional:constraints::contends :contest :context :: :: :: :contrast :control :: :controls :convicted ::conviction ::,,,: :convictions:core :correct :: :: :: :,:correctional : :counsel :: :: :count :country :: :couple :course :court :,,:,,: : ::, :,:, ::, :: :: :: :,: :: :,:, ::, ::,,,:,,,:,,,: :,: ::, ::, ::, :: :: :,:,,:,,,,:,,:, ::, :,:, :: :: :,:, :: :: ::, :,:, :: :,courts :Official: :court's :cover :create :created :credit :,,:, :: :,: :credited :credits ::crime :: ::, ::criminal :,:, ::curiae : ::curtain :,custody :: ::, :DD : :,:, :Dallas :dark :days :deal : :dealing ::deals :decide :,: :: ::,, :: :: :,:decided :decider :,::decides :: ::deciding :: :: :,: :decision :,: :,:,,: :: ::, :decisionmaker:default ::,defendant :: : :: :,: :: : :: :,,: ::, :defendants :: :defendant's: :Defender :define ::delighted :demonstrating:denial :deny :,Department::describe :: :designate :,: ::designates :designation: :desire :deter :determination:, :,: :: :: :: :determine :: :: ::,determining: :difference ::,different :,: : :: :,: :,difficult :dinner :,:,direct ::,director :directors :directs :disagree :discretion :: ::dissatisfaction:district :: :: :: :: :doctrine :doing : :doubt :dozen :drew :drug :,,: :dual : :: :,D.C :,EE : :,earlier :easier ::easily :Easterbrook:easy :,eat :effectiveness:effectuate :effectuated :Einstein :either : :: :: ::,,: :,: :: :element :empower :enacted :enactment ::enforce :enforced :: :enforcement:,engaged :entitled :,:,entity ::equal :equally :erroneous ::ESQ :,,:,,, Official:,,,: ::,,:,,,: :,:,,:,,,: :,,:,,:,,,,:,,: :,:,,:,,:,,,:,,:,,,:,,,:,,,:,,,,:,,,: ::,,,: :,:,,:,,,: ::,, ::federalism: :Federal/Federal:figure :find : :::finished :first : :,: :: :: :,: :: :,,:, ::, :: :: ::,firsts :fit :Fletcher :flip :flow :follow :: ::followed :following :follows :footnotes :force :: :,:form ::forth :forward :,:found :frequency ::friend :friends :front : ::fruition :function :further :future :,:GG :general : :: :,: ::General's :,:,,getting :Ginsburg :: :,: :,:, :: ::,,give : :: :,: ::, :,: :: :given : ::, :: ::gives :giving :go : :: :: :: :: ::goals :,: :goes : :: ::going :, ::, ::,,,:,, ::, :: ::, ::, :: :,: :,good : ::Government: :,: :,: ::, :: :: :: :Government'sface :faces :facilities :,:facility ::,, ::, ::fact : :,: :: :: ::factor :,:factors : ::,,:, :: :,: :,::fairly : :falls :fanciful :far :fashion :federal ::, :,: :,,: :,,: :,,: : ::, :: :,:,,,: :,:,,,,:,,:,,,,:,,,: :,:,,:, :,: ::, :exclusively :facts :,established ::estimation :: :EVAN : ::event :eventuality:eventually :evidence :Ex : :exact : :exactly :: ::example :: :,:exclusive :::::executive :exemplaryexercise :exercised :exhaust :existence :existing :explanation::explicitly ::,explosion :expressly :extent :: :extra :: :extraordinary:F Officialimplement: :implementation:indictment:: ::grant :,,granted : :grants :::greater ::guard :guess :,: :: :,:,guideline :guidelines ::gun : :: :,guy :Hhabitabilityhalf : :::hand :: :,hands :happen :: : :: :,: :happened :: ::happening:happens :: : ::harmed :Hawkins ::, :,,:,,,:, :,: : :,: :,:,,:,,,:,,,: :,: ::,,: :,health :hear : ::heard :held :hellhole :helps :highlighted :highlights :historically:history :hold :honestly :Honor :,,: : ::, ::, ::,, ::, ::,,:,,,:, :: :: : :: :hundred :hypothetical: :IIce :idea : :: : :identically:III :immediately::impliedly :important :importantly:impose :: : ::, :imposed :,:, : :: :, ::, ::, :: :,: ::,,,:, :: :: : :imposes :imposing :: ::imposition:impossible :imprisoned :imprisoning:imprisonment: : :,:,,,: :,:, : :: :: :: ::imprisons :inconsistent:incorrect :increasing :indeterminantindividual :individualized::information:, ::, ::, ::infringing :inherent ::, :inherently :inmate :inmates :insight :instance :,instances :intended :intent ::interact :interested :interesting ::interfere :interference:interpretation: :,involved ::irrational :irrelevant :issue : :: ::Jjail : :jailer :,:, ::JASON : :: : :Jay : ::,,,:,,,: :,: :,:,, :: :,:, :,:,,:,,,: :,:, ::,,:, :: :judge :,:,, :: : ::, :: :: :,:, ::,,,:, ::,,:,,,:,,:, :,: :,:, :: :,:,,,:, ::,,,,,: :,:,,,: :,,:, ::,,:, ::,,,:,,,:, :: :,:,,,:, : Official: :: :: ::,,:,,,: :,: :,: :: :: ::knowing :knowledge: :knows :: :,Llack :lacks :language :later-served: ::Laughter :: :law : :: ::,,: :,:laws : :lean :leave :left :length ::letting :let's : :: :: :life :light :limitations :line : ::::,,,:,,,,: :,:,,:,,,:,,,:, ::, ::,,,:, ::, :: :,,:,,:,,,:, :: :,: ::,,,: ::,,,:,,: :,: :,:,, ::, :: ::,,:,KKagan ::, ::, ::, ::Kagan's :keep :keeping :Kennedy :: ::,,,: :key : :know : :: : ::, :: :,: :,,: :,:,,judges : ::,,: :,: ::judge's :: :judgment :: : :: :,: :,: ::judgments:judicial ::, :: :: :,: :,: :judiciary :jurists :justice : ::, :,,:,, :: :, ::,,,:,,,:, ::,,:,,,: :,: :,: :,:,,,:,,,:,,:,,,: :,:,,,: :,:, :: :,: :: :: :,: :: ::meaning :,: :,meaningful: :means : ::meant :mechanism: :meets :mentioned:mercy :merited :merits :met :mind ::, :minimum :: ::minutes ::missed :modified :modify :monkey :MONROE :months ::morning :muck :multiple :: :,M&M's ::NN :, :name :natural :linguistically:little ::local :,locked :logical :long : :: :: :: ::longer : ::look : :: :,: :,: :: ::looking :,: ::looks :lot : :loved :Mmaps :match :materials :matter : :: : ::matters :mean : :: :M : : :maintained: :making :,: ::, :mal-administr...mandatory ::: nature ::nearly :necessarily ::need :needed :needs : :: :neither ::never : :: :: : ::Nevertheless:night :Ninth :norm :note :November :number :,: :numbers :Nunc :OO : :obligation :obstacle :obtained :occur :occurs :offense :: :offenses ::office :officer :officers :Office's :Oh : ::okay : :: :once :Official: ::ongoing ::open :opposite :oral : :,,: : :order : ::,, :: : ::, :: :: :: :ordered :Oregon :ought :overcome :overlappedoverridden::PP :page : ::, :pages :parallel :pardon ::parole :,: :part : ::, :parte ::particular :: :: :particularly: :passage :: ::passed ::,,: :,:passing :peculiar :peculiarity:penal : :penitentiaries:,people :perfect :person :,: :,: :: ::perspectivepetition :::petitioner :,: :,,: : :: ::Petitioner's:phrased :piece :place : :: :: :plain :,plainly ::play :please :: :plenary :point : :: :: :,: ::,,: :: :: :,: :points :policy ::position ::,,possibility :possible ::,possibly ::power : :: :,: :: ::, :: ::, :,: :,:practical :: :: :practice :: :,:precisely :: :: :precluded :predecessor::prediction :preferable: :,preference :preliminary:premature:premise ::prepared :prescribe ::prescribed: :presumably: :presumptionspresumptively::pretty :prevail :previous :previously ::primary :principle :principles ::prior :: :prison :: :,: :,: :,:, :: :prisoner :: ::, :: :: :prisons :,:,, :,:, :: :: :,: :,:, :: :: :,:, ::, :: :,:,,:, :: :,: : ::, : Official:,private :privately :,pro :probably :::punishment:, :: :,: :purposes :probation :,:: ::problem :,:, :: :: :: :problems :procedural:process :prognosticatingprogram :::proper :proposing :proposition:prosecution:prosecutions: :protections:protects :provide ::provided :: ::providing :provision :: :: :public : :pulled :pulls :punish :,punished :pursuing :put : :: :Qqualifications:quantum :question :: :: :: :: ::, :: :,: :: :questionablequestions :::quintessentially: ::quite :,: :quoted :RR :radar : :raised :ran :rationally :read :,,: : :: ::reading :: :: :real :realize :really :: :: :reason :: :: :: :reasonable :reasonableness:reasoning ::,reasons :: :: ::rebuttal :: :receive ::received :receives :recognized: ::recognizing:recommend:,,: :recommendat...:, :: :: ::recommendat...:,,recommends:reduce :reduced :refer :refers :reflects :relinquishes:reform :: ::,,:regard : :regarded :regional :,:rejected :related :relationships: :Release :relevant :::remain :remainder :remained :remaining :remedies :remotely :remove :repeat :repeatedly:reply :report :: ::,,represent :require :: :requirement: :requires ::requisite :reserve :respect ::, :: :: :respected ::,Respondent: : :responsive ::restrict :restricted :resulted :retroactive :retroactively:reversal :reversed :review :,: :,:reviewablerevocation: :revoked :rid :right : :: : :: :,,: ::, :: :: :,:, :rigor :risks :ROBERTS ::, :: :: :,: :,: :: :,: :,: :,: ::,rule : :: :,: ::, :run : :: : :, Official: :: :,,: :: :: :,: :: :,:running :Runs :SS : :sailing :salutary ::satisfied :saying : :: ::says :,: :: :: :: :: :,: :,:, :Scalia :,,: ::,,,:,,,: :,: :,:,,:Scalia's :score :screen : :second :: :: :,:,,,:,,,,,:, ::,,: : :: ::seconds :section :,:, :,: :,: : ::,,,:,,: :: :,security :see : :: ::, :seek : :seeking ::sees :Segal :Senate :: :send :sense : :sentence :,:,,,: :,,:,,,:, :,: :,,:, ::, :: :,:,,:,, ::,,: :,,:,,:,,,:, :: :,: :,:,,,:, ::, ::, :: :,:,,,,: :,,:, :,: :,,:,,,,:,,:, ::,,,:, :: :,:,,,: ::,,:,,,:,,,:, :: : :: :,sentenced :: :: :: ::,, ::sentences :: :: ::, :: :,:, ::, ::, ::sentencing ::,,,: :,,: : :: :,:, :: :,:, :: ::,,,:, :: ::, :: :: :: :,:, ::separate :: ::sequentially:serve : :: :: :: :: :: :served : :: :,: :,: :: :,: :,:,, ::, :: ::serves :service :: :,serving :,: : ::set : ::Setser : :: :, :: :: :: :Setser's :: : :setting :shape :shorten :showing :shows :side : ::,,:significant :silent : :simply :: :simultaneouslysingle :,::sits :sitting :situated ::situation ::,,,: :,:, :: ::,, :: :: :: :: :situations :: :,,: :: :skip :smooth :Snickers :Solicitor ::, :solve : :somebody :: ::sorry : :sort : :SOTOMAYOR: :,,: : ::,,: :,: :: ::, :: Officialsound :sounds :sovereign :: :,:, :sovereigns ::sovereignty: :: :,space :speak ::specific :specifically: :specify :spend :: :,: ::spent :SRA :,:standard :standards :start : :starts :state :,,,:,,,:, : :: :,: :: :,:,, ::,, ::,,: :,:,,,:, :: :,: :,:, :: :,:,,:,,,: :,:,,,: :,:,,,,: :: : ::, :: :,: :,,:,,,: :,,:,,,:,,:,,,:, :: :,,: :,:,,,:, ::,,: :,:,,,,:,stated ::statement :: ::,statements:States :,,: : :: ::statute : :: :: :: :: :,:, :: :,:, :: :statutes :statute's :statutory :: :stay : ::::stipulate :stop :,:, :stopped :strange :strictures :structure :struggling :subject :: :,:, :submitted ::subsection:subsequent :subsequently:successive :suggested :suggesting: ::suggests :super-cautious:super-max :support :,:, ::supporting :suppose ::,supposed ::Supreme :,surrenders:system ::, :: ::, :: ::systems :S. :TT :,tack :tailor :take : :: :: :: :,:, :: ::takes :: :talk :talking :: :: :talks :tell : ::term : :,:, ::, :: : :: :,:,, :: :,: :terms : ::,, :: ::, ::Texas :,text :,textual :thank : ::, ::, ::thing : :: :things :: ::think :,: : ::,,: ::, :: ::, :: :,: :: :: :,: :,: :: : :thinking :: :thinks ::third : ::, ::,,,:,,,: :thought ::, :: :: :,: ::three : :: :tie :,ties :time : :,:, :,: : :: :: :,:, ::, ::, ::, ::, :: :,:times : : ::::today :,transfer :transportedtreat : :treatment :tried : :troubled :true : :: :,:trying :: ::tunc :turns :Twenty :two :, ::,,,: ::,,:, :: ::,type :UUh-huh :ultimate :unclear :,uncommon:understand: :understood :undischarged:, :: ::unilateral :unilaterally:United :,,: : :: :universe :unrelated :unthinkable::untold :upfront :use : ::uses :,Vv : : ::versus ::,vested :view : :: :views ::,,violate :violation :voluntarily::Wwaiting ::want : :: ::, ::, ::,,:,,:,,:,,: :: ::, :,: ::, :wanted ::wants :Official:, :: ::,,:warranted:Washington ::wasn't :: ::,way :,,: ::, :: :,: :,:,,: :: :: :: :Wednesday :week :weren't :We'll :we're ::We've :whatsoever :WILLIAM :: :willing :,wise :wishes :withdraw ::::withdrawingwonder :words :,,: :work : ::,working :works :,:world :worried :worse : ::wouldn't ::,write :: :,writing :,wrong : :: ::wrote :Xx :,Yyear : :years :,Young : ::, :: :: :,:,,:,,,: :: :,:,,,: :,:,,,: :::,,: :,: :,:,,:,,,:, ::,,,:,,: :,: :,:,, :: :: ::, ::, ::zero : :Z:, : :,: :: :,: ::-year ::,- : :: : : :: : : : : : : :-year :, : :-month : : : :, : : :: :a :-/ :, :,,,: :,: : : : : : : : :,:, Official : : : : : : :(a) :,: ::,(c) :: : : :: ::, :: :(a) :: :(b) : : :: ::(b) :,: ::, ::,, :, : : :,:-year : : : : : :(c) : 