Official IN THE SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES v. Washington, D.C. Tuesday, December , Petitioner - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - x KATHLEEN SEBELIUS, SECRETARY OF : : HEALTH AND HUMAN SERVICES, : No. - : AUBURN REGIONAL MEDICAL : : CENTER, ET AL. - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - x argument before the Supreme Court of the United States at : a.m. APPEARANCES: EDWIN S. KNEEDLER, ESQ., Deputy Solicitor General, ROBERT L. ROTH, ESQ., Washington, D.C.; on behalf of Department of Justice, Washington, D.C.; on behalf of Petitioner. JOHN F. MANNING, ESQ., Cambridge, Massachusetts; Court-Appointed amicus curiae. The above-entitled matter came on for oral Respondents. Official C O N T E N T S PAGE On behalf of the Petitioner Court-Appointed amicus curiae On behalf of the Respondents On behalf of the Petitioner ORAL ARGUMENT OF ORAL ARGUMENT OF EDWIN S. KNEEDLER, ESQ. JOHN F. MANNING, ESQ. ORAL ARGUMENT OF ROBERT L. ROTH, ESQ. REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF EDWIN S. KNEEDLER, ESQ. Official P R O C E E D I N G S (: a.m.) please the Court: Under Part A of the Medicare program, the ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONER MR. KNEEDLER: Mr. Chief Justice, and may it Regional Medical Center. Mr. Kneedler. ORAL ARGUMENT OF EDWIN S. KNEEDLER CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: We'll hear argument first this morning in Case -, Sebelius v. Auburn Federal government pays out more than $ billion annually to more than , institutional providers, including more than , hospitals. The total amount determined by a fiscal intermediary on the basis of a cost report. obtain a hearing before the Provider Reimbursement Review Board, only if he appeals the intermediary's determination with -- within days. For the almost years of the existence of the Provider Reimbursement Review Board, the Secretary, pursuant to her broad rulemaking authority, has prohibited the board from extending that period, and to which each of these providers is entitled is The statute provides that a provider may Official CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Mr. Kneedler, there's a little bit of at least facial incongruity in instead required dismissal of the appeal, except as specifically provided in the Secretary's own regulations. your position. Congress sets in place the -day limit. Then you say, oh, well, that, we can go beyond that. The Secretary puts in the -year limit, and you say that's it -- you know, that's the dead drop-off. I would have thought what Congress says is entitled to greater weight than what the Secretary says. here is not a limitation applied to suits filed in the court has -- has itself construed the statute's regulating access to the courts or the appellate courts as a matter -- a matter of internal judicial administration. Department of Health and Human Services, and that is something that Congress has delegated the responsibility to the Secretary to construe the relevant statutes and to adopt the relevant regulations pursuant to her broad rulemaking authority. court, in which the court is the relevant tribunal, and MR. KNEEDLER: Well, the -day limitation This deadline governs an appeal within the Official You can't define your own jurisdiction. MR. KNEEDLER: Well, I -- JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Now, you may or may not So in -- in this setting, it is the board that is the relevant tribunal, and the rules governing the board's jurisdiction are established -- JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Excuse me. MR. KNEEDLER: Excuse me. JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: You don't mention Union Pacific in your brief. How can you be calling what you're doing setting your jurisdictional limits? Didn't we say, in Union Pacific, that agencies can't do that? be able to establish claim processing rules. That, I think, is a totally different question. But why do you MR. KNEEDLER: Well, I was responding to -- first of all, the -- the Secretary's regulations have, from the outset, referred to these limitations as limitations on the board's jurisdiction. This is -- promulgated -- think the amici is right. You can't -- if they're jurisdictional, we've clearly said that equitable continue to use it as jurisdictional language? this is set forth in the -- in the regulations JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Well, in that respect, I tolling doesn't apply under any circumstances. Official MR. KNEEDLER: Right. And we -- and we JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: So what is good cause, if not some form of equitable tolling? For example, in -- in the several cases that this Court has considered finding provisions to be MR. KNEEDLER: There is nothing incompatible clearly believe that equitable tolling does not apply. That would be fundamentally inconsistent. between a good cause -- a limited good cause extension and a jurisdictional rule. jurisdictional, the time for taking an appeal and the time for petitioning for certiorari are both jurisdictional, but both allow extensions for good cause. In fact, this Court's decision in Bowles and, again, this is just a narrow question of good cause. It in no way suggests that equitable tolling would be -- would be permitted. The narrow question is whether the Secretary permissibly construed the statute to allow a comparable good cause exception, where -- where something akin to an act of God would prevent the provider from actually appealing within the requisite period of time, just like the district court can extend the appeal period. involved the extension for good cause. So the question here for the Secretary -- Official under the jurisdiction of the VA. MR. KNEEDLER: Well, I mean, there are a JUSTICE GINSBURG: The -- the Court's decision in Henderson against Shinseki, that also involved an intra-agency appeal, and yet, we said that equitable tolling was permissible. number of differences there. I think, technically, it was not intra-agency. It was an appeal from the Board of Veterans Appeals to the Court of Veterans Appeals, which is a separate body. It is not something The VA was not given rulemaking authority over that, unlike here, where the board is under the Secretary's jurisdiction, and, in fact, she has adopted regulations that have been in place for years, which limitation as jurisdictional. statute is not one comparable to a statute regulating benefits for veterans, to which there has always been a think you could do the same thing in the veterans' benefits context? Because in Henderson, of course, we dropped a footnote saying that we weren't deciding have expressly barred any extensions and treated that whether equitable tolling was available. All we were Also, very much unlike Henderson, this solicitude by Congress and the courts -- JUSTICE KAGAN: But, Mr. Kneedler, do you Official MR. KNEEDLER: Well, I think, in Henderson, saying was that this was a claims processing rule and not a jurisdictional rule. Could the Secretary of Veterans Affairs then go on and say, okay, it's a claims processing rule, but still, we get to decide how much equitable tolling we want, and we're going to adopt a regulation, much like the one in this case, saying you can't come in after years? Could you do that in Henderson? there would have been the problem that the rule, as I understand it, was a rule to -- for appealing to the Court, which was outside the -- the Secretary's rulemaking authority; whereas, here, this is a body within HHS over which the Secretary has rulemaking clearly had -- and she has very broad legislative rulemaking authority under this statute -- has the authority to adopt strict limitations, as she has done have adopted equitable tolling? could have. We think that, as we say in our brief, quite aside from the Secretary's regulation, we believe But, yes, we -- we think that the Secretary authority. on that -- JUSTICE GINSBURG: Could she -- could she MR. KNEEDLER: I -- we don't think that she Official JUSTICE KAGAN: I guess the question I was MR. KNEEDLER: Yes. We -- we certainly do For -- for -- in the first place, most nature of these providers, as this Court noted in the the sort of open-ended equitable tolling that the court of appeals has imposed on this program for the first time in years is fundamentally inconsistent with a need for repose, especially given the sophisticated Your Home nursing home case -- trying to ask, Mr. Kneedler, was do you think it's a general principle of administrative law that, when there is a claims processing rule that -- that relates only to internal agency process, that the agency gets to decide how much, if any, equitable tolling to allow? believe that. agency time limits are established by the agency itself, pursuant to regulation. So if there had been no statutory -day limitation period here and the Secretary had adopted a regulation imposing that, then whether -- and the extent to which that provision would be open to extensions for good cause, for some degree of equitable tolling, whatever the factors, would be up to the Secretary in construing her own regulation -- JUSTICE ALITO: Now, you refer to these --to the providers as sophisticated, and that certainly is Official with that -- with that conclusion. access? intentionally withheld, concealed? MR. KNEEDLER: Well, as you say, we do true. But are they really in a position to double-check the calculation when -- if it were true -- and I know you don't agree with this -- if it were true that information needed to make the calculation was not -- we do not agree with that. And the findings by the district court in this case, which was the same district judge who sat in the Baystate case, disagreed JUSTICE ALITO: Well, I understand that. But if that were the case, would their sophistication allow them to double-check this? Or is this just something that is dependent on data that they cannot difficult. This was a situation which required the matching of data between CMS and the Social Security administrative -- massive data files of million something, there will be errors. And the -- the providers did not know -- JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Assume for the sake of your answer that the error was intentional. Don't try MR. KNEEDLER: Well, it -- it may be more Medicare claims, I think million SSI claims. And when you have two agencies matching Official MR. KNEEDLER: There -- it -- JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: There -- that might be a contradiction in terms. MR. KNEEDLER: There may be -- there may be to go to the facts, but assume the error was intentional. Now, answer Justice Alito's question. situations in which the provider would not know that, but the need -- but the need for finality under this program, we think, requires an across-the-board rule. Otherwise, a provider could come in -- as this Court suggested in the Your Home case, circumstances -- JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: If this is a claim processing rule, under what theory could you shield yourself against fraudulent conduct -- fraudulent rule be fair and -- and non-arbitrary -- fraudulent acts. believe this is an ordinary claims processing rule. We believe that this is a jurisdictional limitation imposed by the -- by Congress, interpreted by the Court to allow this narrow exception. So we do not believe that -- MR. KNEEDLER: Well -- JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: -- that shielded it from concealment? Under what theory of law would an agency's MR. KNEEDLER: First of all, we do not JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Why do you keep fighting Official MR. KNEEDLER: But with -- yes, we do JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: You keep fighting the intent not to use the figures that are specified by statute, and that is concealed. In that set of circumstances, if this were a claim processing rule, would you be authorized to treat -- not to -- not to permit the action? MR. KNEEDLER: Yes. We -- we believe the the -- the question? believe that the Secretary, in the interest of -- of finality, can impose that sort of limitation. There's a presumption of regularity in the -- in the operation of -- administration of Federal programs. There are criminal sanctions. hypotheticals. There is an intent to save money and an that showed widespread fraud in something, I think Congress or the Secretary could be expected to respond to that in an appropriate way. The question is whether Secretary would be -- would be required to, and we think may well be compelled to. But let me point out, if there was that sort of extraordinary circumstance, then either Congress or the Secretary could provide a special remedy in that situation. the hard and fast rules that have been adopted should If there was an inspector general's report Official that this is a jurisdictional limitation. MR. KNEEDLER: Insofar as the board is JUSTICE SCALIA: Can you think of any other be -- should be open to general equitable tolling principles. JUSTICE SCALIA: Mr. Kneedler, you -- what I find incompatible in your argument is you -- you assert concerned. The board has said and the Secretary has said that the board -- this is jurisdictional, and the board has no equitable powers to -- the Court was dealing with the jurisdictional time limit for an appeal, but there was a comparable -- there is a comparable statutory provision for the Court to extend that period for good cause. It remains jurisdictional. That was the point in Bowles. It was -- there was a question of whether the -- JUSTICE SCALIA: Well, if there is another statutory provision, then that -- then that statutory instance in which we have found something to be a jurisdictional limitation and allowed the person or agency, subject to that limitation, to extend it? I --I had always thought that once you say it's jurisdictional, it means you have to abide by it. extension is part of the jurisdictional limitation. MR. KNEEDLER: As I said, in -- in Bowles, Official MR. KNEEDLER: Right. And -- and the -- the JUSTICE SCALIA: Undoubtedly. But have any game. this -- That's fine. But when you just have a jurisdictional days, without any statutory provision for extension, if it's jurisdictional, I thought that's the end of the question is -- some time limitations have been understood to contain explicit -- excuse me, explicit or implicit authorizations for the tribunal concerned. And jurisdictional time limitations? JUSTICE KAGAN: I mean, you don't need that label, do you, Mr. Kneedler? You could do just as well better, as Justice Scalia is suggesting, with a claims processing label, as long as, with that label, comes the general rule that the agency gets to determine the extent of discretion as to late filings. MR. KNEEDLER: Right. This is a mandatory -- this is a mandatory -- even if nonjurisdictional, it is a mandatory limitation. And the question is whether the statute contains an implicit authorization, whether the Secretary could permissibly construe it to allow for this narrow good cause with a claims processing label. Maybe you could do Official JUSTICE SCALIA: The problem with taking that it's jurisdictional, is that there is a long MR. KNEEDLER: Yes, that is -- JUSTICE SCALIA: They have said it. MR. KNEEDLER: -- that is -- that is exception comparable to the one for extending the time -- that approach, of course -- and I assume why you assert history of both the board and the Secretary regarding this as jurisdictional. Here, we have a statute governing procedures in an administrative agency and regulations adopted at a time before that -- that bifurcated way of looking at that's why I wonder what the basic underlying principle is. I mean, I would have thought -- but I'm not sure what you think, that -- that the way to look at these correct. But we -- but I think it's also important to recognize that the -- that this statute was enacted, the regulations were adopted before this Court's recent jurisprudence identifying some things as jurisdictional, some things as claim processing, primarily focusing on the judicial situation. things arose. JUSTICE BREYER: All right. But that --cases is, using ordinary principles of statutory Official Now, if that's the basic question, it helps, If the answer to that question is yes, your rule stands, regardless of label, and if the answer to the question is no, it fails regardless of label. interpretation, would a reasonable legislator, having enacted these words, intend to give the agency a degree of leeway in interpreting the statute? but isn't determinative whether you classify this as a claims processing rule or a jurisdictional rule. Those are conclusions. But, really, it's the question of leeway that the Congress intended to -- to delegate to the agency that is determinative. And I want to make clear that under, whatever the answer lose because whether -- if it's an absolute rule to which there can be no exception or the Secretary's regulation allowing a limited exception is valid, in no case would the sort of open-ended tolling regime that my time. CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, counsel. Mr. Manning. ORAL ARGUMENT OF JOHN F. MANNING, the court of appeals imposed be permissible. If I may, I'd like to reserve the balance of MR. KNEEDLER: That's --- that's correct. to that precise question, the Respondents in this case Official COURT-APPOINTED AMICUS CURIAE MR. MANNING: Mr. Chief Justice, and may it Congress in two ways signaled its intention First, Congress chose to locate that please the Court: to treat the time limitation prescribed by Subsection (a)() as absolute; that is, as not subject to waiver and not subject to equitable tolling. provision in the very part of the statute that defines the board's jurisdiction, that is to say, in the part that determines the class -- JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: It didn't talk about the board. It talks about what a party can do, not what the board can or cannot do. in several cases, this Court has held that similar MR. MANNING: You're entirely -- entirely right, Justice Sotomayor. It talks about the -- the right of the provider to get a hearing in the provision of the statute that -- that determines the class of cases that the provider may hear. prototypical limitation that -- that Congress uses when it intends a jurisdictional limit on a court. statutes that are framed in terms of the party's right MR. MANNING: No, it's not, Your Honor. But JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: That's not the Official What policy supports an argument that we to invoke the power of the tribunal, that those are jurisdictional statutes. The Court has never addressed the question whether they can be -- they must be framed in terms of the power of the board or in terms of the right of the party to invoke the power of the board. JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: We have talked about what the -- the fact that there almost is a presumption of a claims processing rule, rather than jurisdictional, unless Congress is clear about that. prescribed in this area of law is focused on congressional intent. In Arbaugh, this Court said that the touchstone is congressional intent, that -- that the design of this Court's rules is to put the ball in should be reading limitations of this kind as jurisdictional, particularly when, on the same day the statute was passed, the agency, invoking its regulatory powers, treated it like a claim processing? Whatever your colleague argues, a good cause exception, the -year exception, everything else is -- is really treating it like a claim processing rule, not as jurisdictional. MR. MANNING: Justice Sotomayor, you're entirely right, that the test that this Court has Congress' court. Official This Court has put a thumb on the scale Both set almost identical deadlines for is, is invalid because Congress signaled a clear different kinds of deadlines, one for providers and one for beneficiaries. against jurisdiction because of the hard consequences that follow from deeming a procedure jurisdictional. In this case, the agency's regulation, no matter how old it intention to treat this as jurisdictional in two ways: One, by putting it in the -- in the provision of the statute that defines the board's jurisdiction. But, secondly, Congress, in this statute, created two administrative appeals. It's months for beneficiaries, days for providers. But there is a fundamental difference in the way Congress treated these two sets of deadlines, and the fundamental difference is that Congress explicitly gave the Secretary authority -- discretion, to extend the deadline for beneficiaries. It gave no such discretion to extend the -- the deadline limits that govern judicial review. Discretion -- more than years extension, that was adopted after notice and comment, and Congress amended this statute for providers. And the same story plays out in the -day JUSTICE GINSBURG: This -- this agency not Official MR. MANNING: Justice Ginsburg, you're And this is a sound policy because Congress finding acquiescence than it did at one time. In the Solid Waste Authority of Northern several times thereafter, but it left this -- this -year outside limit intact. So if Congress really wanted there to be no leeway at all, then it should have done something about that regulation. entirely right. Congress has amended the statute, in fact, eight times since the Secretary promulgated her regulation establishing a good cause requirement. But this Court has, in recent years, been more careful about Cook County, what this Court said is that before it will find that Congress has acquiesced, there must be evidence that Congress was aware of the regulation and a place this regulation. leaves regulations in place for all sorts of reasons because somebody is using a parliamentary tactic, because Congress doesn't have one opinion or the other about whether the -- the regulation is right, because Congress didn't think of the problem. upon a high degree of proof before it will find clear signal that Congress meant to embrace or put in acquiescence, and that degree is not present here. So, in recent years, this Court has insisted Official And the -- the subject matter is not a doesn't say what happens if you don't. It's open, the language. There is no evidence that Congress was aware of this regulation, much less that it approved of it. JUSTICE BREYER: Well, but you have three -- the point that you make is right, that -- that you have specific language in the beneficiary part and not here; but you have the other way, the point that Justice Ginsburg made, the fact that the language here is -- is -- doesn't say file within days. It says, you may have a hearing if you file within days. It court. The subject matter is a rather technical agency review board. And normally, I would think, you would think, and members of Congress would think that the agency knows best as to how to run its own operation and -- and don't interfere too much in details, and this is a sort of detail. you. Honor. And -- and typically, an agency has discretion to set its own procedures, as the government argues. And -- and the government is quite right to cite Vermont So those are the things against you, it seems to me, though the thing you cite is certainly for MR. MANNING: Quite -- quite right, Your Official addressed the precise question in issue. It's very difficult when one reads the JUSTICE BREYER: One was passed long, long ago and was part of the Social Security Act or something, the one you're talking about, and was passed many years before the second one was passed. Yankee. And I would add Chevron, that -- that the government promulgated its regulation in a Chevron-eligible format. But Chevron only applies if the statute is not clear, and here, we say that Congress beneficiary provisions and provider provisions, which are quite different. One provides discretion, and one doesn't. And what Respondents would have -- passed in history. MR. MANNING: You're exactly right, Justice Breyer. But Congress, in Section O of the Act, that enacted -- that created the PRRB, amended and prescribed the -- the beneficiary review provisions. It incorporated, by reference, provisions that gave the Secretary express discretion to extend those deadlines. And so, in the same statute, what Congress did was it set up two systems, one for beneficiaries and And when they're sitting in Congress writing -- you know, they don't know everything that was reenacted the provision from the legislation that Official What the Respondents are asking this Court merit deference in this case because the statute is clear. And to return to Justice Sotomayor's question about the phrase -- and your question about the phraseology of Subsection (a), this Court held in Bowles v. Russell that Section is jurisdiction notwithstanding that it -- one for providers. One prescribed discretion, one didn't. to do is to read these two sets of provisions, which are worded very differently, to mean the same thing, to mean that the Secretary has discretion whether Congress gives it or doesn't. And I submit that that's a good reason to treat this as a step one case. The Secretary does not point I raised earlier, which is we look at what the history is to help inform our use of labels. The history here -- you can't ignore it -- is that, from its inception, whether it's trying to disclaim it now or not, the agency has not treated it as jurisdictional. JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: That was, in part, the It's used the word -- MR. MANNING: Well -- JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: -- but it's treated it as a claim processing rule by creating these exceptions. Official MR. MANNING: Well, you're right, In the -- in the regulations that Secretary, CMS, and the board -- have all described this acknowledged that there was a question about whether the good cause exception was consistent with the characterization of the time limitation as jurisdictional, acknowledged that there was a split of authority on that, and suggested that the courts would have to resolve it. This is not -- Justice Sotomayor. But my question -- the question that that raises is this: From the very beginning, this agency has -- all three of the agencies -- the provision as jurisdictional and non-waivable. At the same time, they have tried to create this exception. narrowed the good cause exception, the Secretary JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: There is -- there is a lot of discussion and confusion between jurisdiction, mandatory claim processing rules, nonmandatory claim processing rules. I could go on and on about the made earlier, which is, assuming we were to treat this as a mandatory claim processing rule, where does that get you? Now, the agency says that means no equitable labels. But let's go back to the point Justice Kagan Official tolling. In Irwin, this Court included among the with what the plaintiff could have done or not done, but tolling. Assuming I'm willing to accept that, is equitable tolling the same as fraudulent concealment, which has been treated in the law, not as a -- as a necessary part of equitable tolling, which has to do with what a defendant has done or not done? MR. MANNING: Justice Sotomayor, this Court has said that, if a time limitation is jurisdictional, that limitation is absolute. That includes no equitable grounds for equitable tolling the intentional concealment of information that was necessary to -- Justice Sotomayor, then even if the -- even if the CMS intentionally withheld this information, the time limit the statute is not jurisdictional, it's subject to equitable tolling; under Irwin, the presumption of equitable tolling applies. And, it's very difficult to MR. MANNING: Certainly. So if it's jurisdictional, CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Why don't you -- why don't you take another minute to finish your answer? would be absolute and would not be extendable. On the other hand, I believe that if the --see how the Secretary is warranted in narrowing Official MR. ROTH: Mr. Chief Justice, and may it JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Do you agree with that last statement? CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, counsel. MR. MANNING: Thank you. CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Mr. Roth. ORAL ARGUMENT OF ROBERT L. ROTH ON BEHALF OF THE RESPONDENTS equitable tolling beyond the traditional grounds on which equitable tolling would be available. please the Court. is not permitted to have mandatory claim processing is not capable of having mandatory claim processing rules, that it limits the application of equitable mandatory claims processing rules to the extent -- with the leeway that was provided by Congress. MR. ROTH: Well, I -- JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Do you think an agency principles? MR. ROTH: The -- the agency could have rules? MR. ROTH: Excuse me, Your Honor? JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Do you believe an agency Here, the leeway ends when you have -- when you have issues, like Your Honor was talking about, with JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Would our review be an APA review, whether the -- the rule is arbitrary or capricious? MR. ROTH: Well, I think that -- that the the Congress has -- has delegated to the fox to intentional concealment, when you have actions by the Secretary, misconduct by the Secretary, that caused the statute of limitations time to be missed. determine who is in charge of the henhouse. So there is a limitation, Your Honor, on how far the agency can go, and it cannot go as far as to shield itself from judicial review of its own misconduct. APA review would start under -- under step one. And we under step one of Chevron, that this has not been delegated to the agency to determine what the judicial review should be available in the context of agency misconduct, Your Honor. provides no support for the government's proposition that Congress intends undetectable and undisclosed agency misconduct to deprive hospitals of the payments Congress promised --believe that the statute is clear on this point, that And, in fact, Your Honor, there is -- oo Official One would have to assume that the -- that JUSTICE SCALIA: Of course, nobody -- nobody Official intends that when they -- when they adopt an absolute rule. I mean, you -- you can create a horrible with respect to any absolute jurisdictional rule. That's easy to do. So the mere fact that -- that a horrible could occur does -- does not at all persuade me that -- that a rule is not absolute. MR. ROTH: Well, the horrible that we're talking about here, Your Honor, is agency misconduct. And it's been a longstanding principle of law that defendants should not benefit from their own misconduct. JUSTICE GINSBURG: And why -- why do you say that? I mean, the record that we have says that the CMS failed to use the best available data. It doesn't say anything about deliberate concealment. MR. ROTH: Your Honor, the -- this case arises on -- comes to this Court after a motion to dismiss was granted, and so that the -- that the -- the Court would have to take as true the allegations in the complaint. the Baystate case, which is what revealed all of this, And the allegations in our complaint in paragraph -- in paragraph -- , Your Honor, raise this question. And that can be found -- let's see -- do you have -- in the Joint Appendix -- JUSTICE GINSBURG: Well, in -- in any event, Official complaint presented one aspect of this concealment, which was a misleading aspect of the agency's actions here, where the agency said that matching on the basis of Social Security numbers was the best way to deal with this -- this matching of the data that my colleague from the government was -- was discussing. in -- in that case, the district judge there didn't say -- he said they didn't use the best available data. He didn't find any deliberate concealment. MR. ROTH: That's correct, Your Honor, and because the -- that issue was not before the court and it was not necessary for the court to make that finding for purposes of addressing that case. I'm at the Joint Appendix at , which is paragraph of our complaint. And paragraph in our And it ends up that the -- that it turns out years later that, in fact, the Secretary didn't match on the basis of Social Security numbers. And that made an enormous difference with respect to how that -- how the calculated. So -- so the reason the district court in the Baystate case didn't have to make findings about fraud or similar fault or delve that much into the disproportionate share hospital benefit would be agency action was because that case came to the court Official The -- but -- but we are talking -- while we mention that what we are talking about here are safety net hospitals. We are talking about those hospitals that provide services to -- to a high percentage of poor people, and -- and Congress had found that those patients are more expensive to treat. JUSTICE KAGAN: But, Mr. Roth, on -- on the through the traditional appeals process without having -- and so a finding as to the actions of the Secretary and -- and characterizing those actions, as whether they're misconduct or not was, not necessary to addressing the case as it was before the district court in that -- at that time. are talking about the disproportionate share hospital payment, Your Honor, let me simply -- let me simply clearly prohibits equitable tolling, and you say the legal question here, I think Justice Breyer is right, that this all comes down to congressional intent, how we read this statute. If you -- one response to reading the briefs in this case is that you and Mr. Manning present opposite views of the statute, and -- and both of you say the statute is clear as to your opposite view. statute clearly requires equitable tolling. And both of In other words, Mr. Manning says the statute Official ways, and both of you have presented good arguments, but And one response to that might be to say, MR. ROTH: Well, of course, Your Honor, the -- the statute is clear and equitable tolling is you have kind of decent arguments. Mr. Kneedler is right, that the statute is just ambiguous and that it can be read a bunch of different in the end, it really all goes to show that there is a lack of clarity here, and then it's up to the agency to decide. permitted. can always make an argument on the other side, and the mere fact that an argument is made on the other side do. They make arguments on the other side. you look at the factors that underpin the government's position here that somehow the government can decide that it can preclude this Court from reviewing agency misconduct -- you heard the government talk about the need for finality. Well, the need for finality is not something that's articulated in the -- in the Medicare Act except to the extent in a statute that's protective of providers. There is not a -- JUSTICE SCALIA: Of course -- of course, one does not prove that it's not clear. That's what lawyers MR. ROTH: But here, Your Honor, the -- when Official JUSTICE BREYER: Are there examples? I there for fraudulent concealment. I mean, I guess they can't go back to fraudulent if it ends up, even though it's not just a lawyer's mean, it seems to me that, even if you lose this -- I mean, I mentioned the three arguments against you, the other -- the ambiguity of the language and so forth. So argument, it isn't really that clear, and they do have some authority, you then have the second string, which is you say their rule is unreasonable because it has an absolute -year cutoff, instead of a little flexibility So -- so do you have statutes, are there statutes that say -- or are there cases that say years is not enough, that -- that you have to have more than years? I thought years is a pretty long time. concealment pre-Civil War -- you know, I mean, there's some period that must be reasonable to cut everything off, and what is that period? What do the cases say? If it isn't years, what is it? has addressed this question in the context of -- of fraud or similar fault by providers, and they said there should be no time limit at all. JUSTICE BREYER: That's their view there, and their view here, which is a different kind of thing, MR. ROTH: Well, Your Honor, the Secretary Official JUSTICE SCALIA: I thought the years MR. ROTH: The Secretary -- well, depends overpayments, the Secretary has an unlimited amount of time to recover overpayments that are the fault or similar -- fraud or similar fault on a provider. is that years is enough. The question is, is that reasonable? And do you have any authority that says it's unreasonable? provision applied only to the Secretary, that she gives herself years to go back and sort things out, but only gives you days; is that right? what sort -- if the "sort it out" means recovering If it is not fraud or similar fault on a provider, the reason the Secretary can't go back more than -plus years is because the statute permits it. U.S. Code gg, which is not cited in the government's brief, that says that, at the end of the third year after payment, that the payment becomes final, as long as the provider and the beneficiary was without fault government touts in was not a subject of an administrative determination that they made. That was simply they were -- they were following a statute. And when you look in the Medicare Act for evidence of a with respect to the payment. So that -year limitation that the Official And what the Secretary has done here is it enacted -- it promulgated a regulation, and the the provider. The -- under the Secretary's regulations, the provider gets an additional years, but no more; isn't that right? statute that -- that should limit -- impose finality in some way, that statute is the only one, and it's protective of providers. regulation provides for an unlimited time period to recover in the face of -- JUSTICE GINSBURG: But Justice Scalia was not correct in what he just said. The years is for MR. ROTH: Well, the -year is both -- it -- it goes both ways, Your Honor, that -- that, under the come in to ask for relief. days for them. It's days, plus an extension up to years. after the -day period there is no right to judicial review. With the reopening -- if there would be a denial of the reopening request, that denial of the reopening request, as this Court said in Your Home, would not be subject to judicial review. reopening rule, that providers have up to years to JUSTICE GINSBURG: Yes. But it's not MR. ROTH: It's -- well, but after the -- Are you challenging the agency's reading of means there will be no review at all, because -- JUSTICE GINSBURG: But are you challenging -- I says, applies only to the provider, not to the -- the government. it would -- would be available, but would not have recourse; and without recourse to judicial review, when you have an issue here like secretarial misconduct, that mean, there is a rule that says that -- there is a regulation that, for fraud, it's -- the time is unlimited. But that -- that regulation, the government the word "party" in that regulation? the -- the Secretary's interpretation of that ruling has changed from when it was -- when it was promulgated in , when during the rulemaking process, they specifically changed that rule to get -- to eliminate way that provides equilibrium, that it would apply both against secretarial misconduct --the reference only to a provider, and it's to any party. JUSTICE GINSBURG: Did you -- did you make that argument in this case? I wasn't aware that you had MR. ROTH: Well, we -- again, this came to the Court on a motion to dismiss, but we think that Official So the extension of time there, Your Honor, And so that rule ought to be applied in a Official MR. ROTH: We -- we speak at some length in one-way ratchet. This is the one-way ratchet that we challenged the interpretation of -- of the fraud regulation. the brief, under this -- under this rubric of the were talking about, Your Honor, in that, with respect to the reopening rule, the -- the Secretary has provided an unlimited amount of time. So finality is not an issue with respect to correcting -- correcting these payments that arise from the fraud -- fraud or similar fault of the provider. minutes behind. The gg provision that you said the government didn't cite -- you mentioned a provision that brief? briefs, Your Honor. CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Is it anywhere that I can find, other than -- I mean, is it in the appendix MR. ROTH: Yes, Your Honor. CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Is that in your MR. ROTH: No. No. That is --CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Is that in the amici's brief? MR. ROTH: It is not cited in any of the CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Counsel, I'm about ended, anyway, with gg. Official MR. ROTH: No. Sorry, Your Honor. We do CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: It's a little bit much to chide the Solicitor General for not citing it MR. ROTH: That is true, Your Honor, and to any brief? not have -- this is not before the Court. when nobody cited it. that -- that is correct. But in citing . and the reason that we're bringing it up, Your Honor, for the It wasn't, Your Honor. That's why we are raising it here, Your Honor, because, under the gg provision, they can't go back, and that's why they have their reopening regulation and that reopening regulation is an order from Congress. first time on rebuttal is that in the -- in the government's reply brief, they went out of their way to try to characterize the reasonableness of the Secretary, you can trust the Secretary here because the Secretary has said, look, after years, we consider there to be finality, and we don't go back after the -- after the --after the providers -- you know, except for fraud or similar fault, as if this had been a gift, an interpretation from the Secretary. And what we have here, Your Honor, is that you have this concept at least arising from Congress; Official when you look at the gg, you look at the appeals statute in oo, is that you have an expectation from Congress that the providers within their days will be able to know exactly what happened and why they were underpaid. And here, of course, that underpayment was concealed. JUSTICE SCALIA: Is that reopening -- is that reopening provision, the mysterious gg, is -- is that subject to equitable tolling, too? MR. ROTH: The -- well, the -- JUSTICE SCALIA: And if not, why not? MR. ROTH: Well, gg simply says that a -- that a -- that a provider and a beneficiary will not be subject to overpayment recoveries, if they were And what we -- and whether it would be susceptible for equitable tolling is not before the Court at this point, but that rule at least is applied equally on both sides. provider was underpaid because of its own fault, this case isn't about any -- any relaxation of that rule. Providers are on the hook for that. In other words, if -- if the -- if a without fault. On the other hand, where a provider is underpaid because of the secretive conduct, the JUSTICE KAGAN: Mr. Roth, I'm not certain about the extent of your argument, so let me -- let me try something. undisclosed and undetectable conduct of the Secretary, that is the -- that's an area where we would find that the very concept of equitable tolling is inherent in oo. notice. That is -- and, again, that goes against this concept that it is jurisdictional. It's a claims processing statute. And here, Your Honor, the notice was defective. When they issued -- passes a statute saying -- you know, there is days to context now, as to administrative process, that Congress necessarily means that equitable tolling applies and that the agency cannot limit that equitable tolling? MR. ROTH: Yes, Your Honor, that, if the issue is the -- is the agency's own misconduct, that Congress would -- to -- to read that Congress intended in a situation under the -- like this under the Medicare Act, where we're talking about a procedural right to that -- to enforce a substantive right. do this, there is days to do this, in the agency Now, are you saying that any time Congress Official Remember, the trigger point in oo is In other words, we have here providers who Official have provided services. And under their agreement with the Secretary, they provide services, and they get paid for those services. If there were an attempt to limit that payment, to cut off that payment because of agency misconduct, because of the expiration of a -- of a statute of limitations, we don't believe Congress ever intended that its payments would be cut off because of agency misconduct that caused a provider to miss -- to miss a deadline that caused the expiration of a statute of limitations. JUSTICE KENNEDY: I'm not sure how we can limit this to agency misconduct. Suppose there is a computer glitch in a program, completely good faith, and information, and nobody knows about it. That's not misconduct. equitable tolling in that case? case -- that -- that is a mistake. That's an error. MR. ROTH: That's not misconduct. JUSTICE KENNEDY: And -- but --MR. ROTH: We would agree, Your Honor. JUSTICE KENNEDY: But you would say no the computer just spits out the -- the wrong MR. ROTH: Well, that's not -- that -- this JUSTICE KENNEDY: I mean, that would be good Official MR. ROTH: That has never been good cause JUSTICE KENNEDY: Well, I don't know -- I MR. ROTH: What's that? JUSTICE KENNEDY: You mean to say that if cause. It seems to me that would be good cause under the -- under the Secretary's rules. under Secretary's ruling, but -- potentially. But that is not what -- that would be the level -- that would not be misconduct. That would not trigger equitable tolling, as opposed to the facts of this case. don't know why it wouldn't. that happened, under the Secretary's rule, the Secretary would abuse its discretion in extending the time for years? appeal? the time, Your Honor. They can simply provide by administrative payment to -- to fix the problem. They don't have to circle it through -- through an appeals process, if the government found out. And, in fact, JUSTICE KENNEDY: Yes. MR. ROTH: Well, they don't have to extend MR. ROTH: For -- excuse me? For recovering -- for the -- JUSTICE KENNEDY: Yes. MR. ROTH: -- for a provider to make an MR. ROTH: Yes, Your Honor. But the facts that you're talking about -- JUSTICE KENNEDY: So you're arguing for -- MR. ROTH: Right. JUSTICE KENNEDY: It is limited to Your Honor, there is another regulation. It's unfortunately -- hard -- hard to see why this is -- you're saying that the equitable tolling rule -- the agency does have the -year rule. misconduct? in a way, for a narrower rule than what the government -- what the Baystate court said it is. It isn't deliberate concealment, but it is failure to use the best available data. the facts that you're talking about are addressed explicitly in CFR .. And what the government has said in that regulation is that, when there has been clerical error, claims can be reopened indefinitely. That's another indefinite time period. MR. ROTH: Well, Your Honor, let me say that JUSTICE GINSBURG: Well, suppose it's just Official JUSTICE KENNEDY: Well, I just find it And I take it the argument you just presented Official are already addressed for the Secretary's JUSTICE GINSBURG: So what -- what MR. ROTH: Well, equitable tolling is MR. ROTH: Well, in this case, Your Honor -- is equitable tolling is tied to misconduct. So just failure to use the best available data, not deliberate concealment, wouldn't make it. well, simply, if it was knowing use of bad data, in other words, if the government, as in this case, was aware that there was better data to be had, that would rise to the level of the kind of conduct that could be subject to equitable tolling; whereas, simple mistakes regulations -- circumstances trigger equitable tolling, in your view? case, Your Honor, because -- fact-finding turns out that the -- that there is no deliberate concealment, but there is merely a failure to MR. ROTH: Well, if we don't -- if we don't have that extra level of -- of that -- of that level of concealment, Your Honor, I don't think that we would have the misconduct that this Court has cited in the --in the Bowen case, and before that, in -- in Irwin and certainly triggered under the circumstances of this JUSTICE GINSBURG: Yes, but suppose that the use the best available data. Official purposes of this hearing, which -- JUSTICE GINSBURG: So you would have to prove that before we know whether there is equitable footnote in the -- in the Gluss case that would rise to the level of which -- at which equitable tolling would apply. tolling. MR. ROTH: We -- we -- well, we've made that allegation in our complaint, Your Honor. And we believe that -- that assuming those allegations to be true for JUSTICE GINSBURG: Yes, but I'm asking you, if you get past that hurdle, then we never -- we won't know that there is equitable tolling until we have tried out the question of the character of -- MR. ROTH: Absolutely, Your Honor. If we --if we get past this -- this -- this -- and there would be a remand, it would -- the burden then would be on the hospitals at that time to, in fact, show that equitable tolling could apply. The issue in this Court is whether it should foreclose permanently the availability of equitable tolling, even in the face of allegations of agency misconduct -- excuse me -- JUSTICE KAGAN: I guess I'm not sure I understand this, Mr. Roth. Are you saying that, in all Official those cases have focused on what happened to the claimant, and the claimant missed a deadline. Holland, it was a deadline that was missed. There wasn't misconduct on the other side. of our cases about the presumption in favor of equitable tolling, when we talk about equitable tolling, we are only talking about misconduct or fraud cases -- you know, as opposed to the case where it's just a person cannot possibly know the -- the information that would back up a claim and that we regard that as a good excuse? MR. ROTH: No, Your Honor. Whether it was Henderson or -- or other cases, those cases recognize -- most of your argument was built on the presumption in favor of equitable tolling that we've recognized in MR. ROTH: Correct. JUSTICE KAGAN: -- and whether it applied to the agency context. But now, you're saying that in the agency context, it's -- it's a different kind of JUSTICE KAGAN: Right. MR. ROTH: And those were subject to equitable tolling. JUSTICE KAGAN: Well because I thought that those cases --equitable tolling that we are talking about, a more Official MR. ROTH: Well, the -- what -- the goes farther. This case even goes farther than Bowen v. you know, assuming they have some authority here to write a rule, you want to say a -year absolute rule is not reasonable in this situation. So what is? limited kind? equitable tolling rule that the Court has found in those other cases would certainly come into play. This case City of New York because it has affirmative misconduct by the Secretary. JUSTICE BREYER: So what about -- then let's get back to the question I really meant to ask before -- MR. ROTH: Well -- JUSTICE BREYER: I mean, you want to go back to the Civil War? I mean, let's imagine you really have the strongest possible case. All the records burned up, and it took years for scientists to reproduce the records by putting charred pieces of paper together. Okay? So you couldn't possibly bring your claim until they finished. That's a pretty equitable claim. years okay? ? What is the -- ? I mean, what? MR. ROTH: Well, Your Honor, in this instance, the -- the question of how to limit a circumstance where a provider is not getting paid --gotten paid the amount promised by Congress, one way Official But recall here, Your Honor, that the JUSTICE BREYER: But what I hear you saying to -- to limit that is by time. Secretary could eliminate this issue entirely by simply being more transparent. This issue arises -- is go back to the Revolutionary War. If it took years to put the papers together, you're saying no time limit at all is -- is the only reasonable solution because there are too many weird cases or unusual cases or misconduct cases. You've got to have some exception in there forever. your position, I just want to know. the agency's own determination some weight? MR. ROTH: The agency's own determination? JUSTICE BREYER: Yes. They'll come in and say, I don't care what the cause is, there isn't cause here because we weren't that awful. And now, does the because, in order to -- to prevail in equitable tolling, we would have to show that the providers here were diligent, and that's a self-limiting factor. JUSTICE BREYER: Okay. And by the way, do we -- are you supposed to, in such circumstances, give MR. ROTH: Well, if -- JUSTICE BREYER: Is that right? If that is MR. ROTH: That is -- that is the position Official MR. ROTH: If the Secretary here decided to in, you can come in and look at our data, but after years, the time limit is over, I think that's a rule that could exist, Your Honor. judge give them some weight? attack head-on this concept of equitable tolling and deal with this question of finality straight up and say -- you know, here -- here is how we think that -- that finality should be -- should be handled, even in the -- even in the context of secretarial misconduct, by, for example, saying within the -year period any provider who feels that we've misrepresented data, come arbitrary and capricious review under Chevron? assuming that there might be equitable tolling, here, is it -- is it years later? And there was this Baystate case going on. You -- you didn't file immediately after that litigation was instituted. You waited until those plaintiffs won their case. You waited till there was a decision of the lower court. So it seems to me you -- you said there's CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, subject to MR. ROTH: It -- subject, of course, to arbitrary and capricious review on that. But the point -- JUSTICE GINSBURG: Why in your case, even Official MR. ROTH: Well, the complaint was filed, Your Honor, in Baystate after we brought our a requirement of diligence. Why -- why didn't you have to file when you were first on notice, which you would have been from the complaint filed in the Baystate case? administrative appeal. We brought our administrative appeal soon after the board -- the administrative board rendered its decision. That was the first public pronouncement that there were flaws with the data. So, Your Honor, diligence, of course, will be an issue if we -- on remand if we get -- if we get that opportunity. But this -- but the -- but the case here arose after the board issued its decision in the Baystate -- in the Baystate case. discussion earlier about whether the board has viewed its own jurisdiction as limited in some way. And the --the fact of the matter is that -- that the board here --There were some providers who had an inkling that some days might have been missed here or there, but there was no sense in the provider community that that arose from a systematic effort by the government to miscount and then fail to disclose that it, in fact, miscounted and had misrepresented how it had counted the days. And there was a -- and there was a Official And in that case, the -- the Secretary didn't leave it there. and I focus on the Bradford case in particular. In the Bradford case, the board itself made a determination that equitable tolling should apply in another time limit within the -- within the Medicare Act. That case then goes up to appeal in the Western District of Pennsylvania, and the -- and the court says, you know what, we think equitable tolling should apply, reversing the Secretary, who had reversed the board's finding that equitable tolling should apply. They petitioned for -- for the court to revisit its determination, which the court did and affirmed its decision with respect to the application of didn't seek an appeal. It allowed the case to go back to the board, and it -- and it -- and it allowed the case to go forward, with that deadline having been as somehow some kind of consistent view, it's not. determinations going back for those years that the good cause regulation has been in place because it is that good cause regulation that -- that forced the --equitable tolled. So when the government portrays this equitable tolling. At that point, the Secretary abandoned -- it This board has engaged in equitable Official the board to have to deal with these equitable questions about whether -- whether or not the -- whether or not the -- the claim should be considered timely, even though the deadline had to be -- had to be extended. The -- the facts that we have here, Your Honor, is that this is really an unprecedented case. This is an unprecedented case in Medicare, that we have the agency that says it was doing one thing in a Federal Register document and actually did something different, that then spent years trying to avoid, as was laid out in the Southwest Consulting amicus brief, avoid having those facts come to -- come to -- come to the attention of the providers. level, because there are -- there will always be, in Medicare, a lead case. This is what we saw in the Cape Cod case. There, you had a case that resulted in what looked to be billions of dollars of payments to every single hospital in the country as a result of one district court decision and one court of appeals decision. misconduct of the Secretary in this kind of case will not -- will not -- will not flood the judiciary or the from this, either at the board or at the Federal court There will not be floodgates that result So allowing equitable tolling to address the Official JUSTICE GINSBURG: How many -- how many level or in court now? agency, and it will not -- it will not require an expenditure of money -- cases are there like this pending, either at the agency MR. ROTH: Well, I think that, when the government says there are cases that are pending involving , cost years and hospitals, those probably mostly, if not entirely, or for the most part relate to -- to this case. And depending on how this case unfolds, those cases will all presumably fall into line, just as in the Cape Cod case. miscalculation still going on? I mean, this involved -- from that time forward to the present? MR. ROTH: Well, there was a change in the law in that now give providers access to the data, so they can look at the underlying access to the data instead of -- instead of the government presenting --preventing them from being able to get access. MR. ROTH: Well, there was a change -- JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: -- claims years ago. MR. ROTH: Right. JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: But did they continue JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Excuse me. Is the Thank you, Your Honor. Official CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, counsel. Mr. Kneedler, you have minutes remaining. REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF EDWIN S. KNEEDLER ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONER MR. KNEEDLER: Thank you, Mr. -- JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Mr. Kneedler, just for point of clarification, the -year good cause extension that's permitted under the government's regulations, would that include -- would good cause -- or could a claim be raised that fraud by the agency is the good cause? under the current regulation. The current regulation is written in terms of good cause for something that destruction of records or something. it's not as if the government is saying -- avenue. In fact, the predominant avenue for raising claims of -- of new and material evidence, which at bottom this is, evidence that -- that there was not the best evidence used in this match, is the reopening MR. KNEEDLER: No, no. But that hasn't been tested as to whether it could. But that's not the only prevents the actual filing of the appeal, like a fire or regulation, and that's the regulation that was addressed MR. KNEEDLER: I -- I think that's unclear JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Thats what I thought. So Official reasons of finality and certainty, that, at some point, the cost years have to be closed. by this Court in the Your Home case. There, the Court made clear that it was a matter of grace, not statutory compulsion, that the Secretary allowed for any reopening at all of past cost reports. This sort of claim of new evidence, for whatever reason it wasn't available, could be raised under that. But this Court held in -- in Your Home, that a denial of a reopening was not even appealable to the board at all or subject to judicial review for And the Court specifically pointed out that to allow administrative and judicial review of a denial of reopening would circumvent the very -day up with another way of circumventing that -day limitation by superimposing, for the first time in years, an open-ended equitable tolling regime in this recalculate payment years back to . The only reason it goes back no further is that's when the DSH payments began. situation. The Respondents here are seeking to DSH payments, by the way, go to percent of hospitals. It's not some limited category. And what limitation that we have at issue here. What Respondents are trying to do is to come Official With respect to the allegations in the is being claimed here is -- is a mismatch of a legislative type. It's not some concealment from an individual provider. complaint, I'm not in a position to spend time refuting them here. We have a footnote in our reply brief that refers to the government's summary judgment motion in which the allegations of misconduct are -- are addressed. regulation that provides for coming in within years to valid. That's what this regulation does. And we think there is no plausible argument at this late date in the Medicare program to suggest that a -year limitation on -- on revisiting of closed cost reports is arbitrary I would like to say that -- that whatever label one attaches, jurisdiction, claims processing, mandating, it's absolutely clear that, from the outset of this program, the Secretary understood and implemented the -day time limit as limiting the board's authority. It says an appeal shall be dismissed if it's not filed within days. No extension shall be granted if requested after -- after years. and capricious under -- under this Court's decisions. That years -- Respondent has conceded a address matters of fraud or anything else would be Official And if we're wrong, as I said, about the Just one side comment on this Bradford appeal -- if the Secretary has no authority to do even validity of the Secretary's narrow good cause regulation, which simply parallels what's in jurisdictional provisions -- for example, notices of that, then the result is the same, there is no broad equitable tolling. opinion, that did not involve the -day limitation. That involved a regulatory provision. The Secretary's consistent position has been, as we cite in the brief, that the -day limitation is not subject to any equitable extensions at all because the board is not an equitable body. And the Medicare program, like the tax program in Brockamp, is not one in which equities are taken into account. You need absolute rules. to make, but they can -- they can lead to widespread delayed litigation, as the Baystate litigation shows, requiring calling of witnesses -- in this case, years ago -- what happened or years ago. You would have a hospital-by-hospital determination of when did the hospital know or have reason to know what happened. Allegations of fraud or concealment are easy And we think that that's -- could be chaotic in a program like this. Official which the Court is grateful. The case is submitted. (Whereupon, at : a.m., the case in the CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, counsel. Mr. Manning, you argued and briefed this case as an amicus curiae at the invitation of the Court, and you have ably discharged your responsibility, for above-entitled matter was submitted.) OfficialOfficial : : : APPEARAN... aside : asking : : :, : authorizations aspect :, assert : : assume : : : : assuming : : : : : attaches : attack : attempt : attention : Auburn : : authority : : : : :,, : : : : : : : : authorization : : authorized : availability : available : : : : : : : :, : avenue :, avoid :, aware : : : : awful : a.m : : : B back : : :, abuse : accept : access : : :, affirmed : : agencies : : : A abandoned : abide : able : : : ably : above-entitled : : absolute : : :, :,, : : : absolutely : : account : acknowledged :, acquiesced : acquiescence :, across-the-bo... : act : : : : : : : action : : actions : : :, acts : actual : add : additional : address : : addressed : : : : : : : addressing : AL : : administration : : administrative : : : : : : : :,, : adopt : : : : adopted : : : : :, : ALITO : : Alito's : allegation : allegations :, : : :, : allow :, : : : : : allowed : :, : allowing : Affairs : affirmative : ambiguity : : : appellate : appendix : : : application : : applied : : : : : applies : : : : apply : : : :, :,, ambiguous : approach : amended : appropriate : : : : : : : amount : : : : area : : argued : argues : amici : approved : amici's : Arbaugh : amicus : : arbitrary : agency :, :, : : : :, : : :, : : :, : :, : :,, : :, :, : : :, : :, : : anyway : : : : :, APA :, appeal :, : :, : :, :, : : :, :, arguments : : : : arguing : argument : :,,, : : : : : : :, : : : : : : : : : : : :, annually : answer : agency's : :, : arises : ago : : appealable : appealing : :, agree :, : : agreement : akin : : appeals : : : : : : : : arising : arose : :, articulated : :, : :, : :, : : bad : balance : ball : barred : basic : : basis : : : Baystate : : : : : :,,, : began : beginning : behalf :, :,, : : : believe : : board's :, : : : : body : : : bottom : Bowen : : Bowles : :, : Bradford :, : : :, Breyer : : :, : : : : : : :, : :, :, : :,, brief : : beneficiaries :,, : beneficiary : :, : : benefit : : : :, : :, : : : briefed : briefs : : benefits :, bring : best : : bringing : :, : :, : better : : broad : : : : Brockamp : beyond : : brought :, bifurcated built : bunch : burden : burned : : billion : billions : bit : : Official :,,, : board :, C : : :, C : : :,,, : calculated : caused : : :, : calculation : Center : : : : : calling : : certain : : :,, :, : Cambridge : certainly : : : :, : : : : : : : : : circumvent circumventing : : cite :, : : : : : : : characterize claimant : claimed : claims :, cited : : : : citing :, CFR : challenged : challenging : : : :, : :,, :, : :, : : : capable : Cape : : capricious : certainty : :, : certiorari : City : Civil : care : claim : : careful : case : : : :,, : :, change :, changed : : :, :, : chaotic : :,, character : :, : : :, characterizati... : :,, : : : :,, :,, :,, charge : :,,,, charred : : :, :,,, Chevron :, :,, Chevron-eligi... : : :,, cases : : :, : Chief :, : : : : :,, : :,, :,, :,,, : :,, : : :,, : : chose : circle : circumstance : : circumstances : :, : :, : : : : : : : : clarification : : : : : : :, : : : clarity : class :, classify : clear : : category : cause :,,, clearly : : : :, clerical : closed : characterizing : : : chide : : : :,, : : : : : :, :,, : : :, : : : :, CMS : : : Official : : Cod : : Code : colleague : : come : : : : : :, :,, : comes : : : coming : comment : : community : comparable : : :, : conduct : : : : correct : : : : : : confusion : Congress :, correcting : : counsel : : : : : : : : :, cost : : : :,, :, : :, :, :,, :,,, :,,, counted : country : :, : County : :,, course : : : : : :, :,, : : : :, : : : :, court :, :, : : compelled : congressional complaint : : :, : :, : consequences : :, : consider : considered : completely : : compulsion : consistent : computer : : : construe : : concealed : : : concealment : :, : : :, : : : :,, : : conceded : concept : :, : concerned : : conclusion : construed : : : construing : Consulting : contain : contains : context : : : : :, : continue : contradiction : : conclusions : Cook : : :, : :, : : :, : :, :, : :,, :,,, : :, : : :, : : : :, : :,, : : : : : : : : : : : :, : :, : : :,,, :, courts :, : : Court's : : : : : Court-Appoin... : : : :, decisions : create : : deeming : created : defective : defendant : defendants : cut : :, degree : : cutoff : :, creating : criminal : curiae : : : : current : : DD :data :,,: :,: :,,: :,: :,date :day :days : : : :,: :,: :,:, : dead :deadline ::, : :, : :deadlines ::, : deal : : :dealing :December :decent :decide : : :,decided :deciding :decision :: : : : :: deference : define : defines : : delayed : delegate : delegated : :,deliberate : : : :,delve : denial :,:,Department: : dependent: depending: depends : deprive : Deputy : described : design : destruction : detail : details : determination : : :, : : : determinations determinative : :,determine : Official : :, :,,,, : :, : :, : : explicit :, explicitly : : express : expressly : equities : EDWIN : :, : : error : : extend : :, : effort : : : eight : : either : : : : : errors : especially : ESQ :,, extendable : fail : failed : fails : failure : :, fair : faith : fall : far :, farther :, fast : fault : : :, :, : : :, favor :, Federal : : :, feels : fighting : : figures : file :, : : filed : :, : files : filing : filings : final : finality : : :, : : : :, : find : : : : : : : finding : : : : : findings : : fine : finish : :, E determined : E : :, determines earlier : :, : : difference : easy : : : : differences : different : : : : : : : differently : difficult : : : diligence : eliminate : : embrace : enacted : : : : : diligent : disagreed : ended : discharged : ends : disclaim : : : disclose : enforce : discretion : engaged : :,, enormous : : :, entirely : :, : : : discussing : : : : discussion : entitled : : dismiss : : : dismissal : dismissed : disproportion... : : district : :, :, : : : document : doing : : dollars : double-check :, dropped : drop-off : DSH :, D.C :,, equally : equilibrium : equitable : :,, :, :, :, : :, : : :,,,, : :, : :, : :, :,, : : : :,, : :, :,, :,,, : :, :,,, establish : established : : establishing : ET : event : evidence : : : :,, : exactly : : example : : : examples : exception : : : :, : : :, : : exceptions : excuse :, : : : : : : exist : existence : expectation : expected : expenditure : expensive : expiration : : extended : extending : : : extension :, : : : : : : : extensions : : : : extent : : : : : extra : extraordinary : F F : : : face : : facial : fact : : : : : : : : : : : :, : factor : factors : : facts : : :, : : fact-finding Official : hearing : : : : Human : : hurdle : held : : hypotheticals: : :, : :,, : gotten : govern : governing : : government : help : helps : Henderson : :, :, : henhouse : : :, : : :, : HHS : :, : : :, history : : :,: : : :, Holland : : high : : home :,: Iidentical :identifying:ignore :imagine :immediatelyimplemented::implicit :,important :impose ::imposed :: :imposing :inception :include :included :includes :including :incompatible: :incongruity :inconsistent ::incorporated:indefinite :indefinitely:individual :inform :information: :,: :inherent :inkling :insisted :Insofar :: : further : GG :game :general : : : : : general's : getting : gg :, : gift : Ginsburg : : : : : :, : : :, : :, :, : : give : : : : given : : gives : :, glitch : Gluss : go : : : :, : : : :, : : : : :, : God : goes : : : :, : : going : : : : good :,,, finished : fire : first : : : : : : : :, : fiscal : fix : flaws : flexibility : flood : floodgates : focus : focused : : focusing : follow : following : footnote : : : forced : foreclose : forever : form : format : forth : : forward : : found : : : : : fox : framed : : fraud : : : :, : :,, : : : : : fraudulent :,, : :, fundamental :, fundamentally government's : : : : : : governs : grace : granted : : grateful : greater : grounds : guess : : : : Hhand : : handled : happened : : : :, happens : hard : : : : :,Honor : : :,:,,:,,: : : : : : : :,, :,,,,: :,: : :,,:,,:, : : : : :, : : hook : horrible :,: hospital : : : : hospitals : : :,: : : hospital-by-h... :, :,, head-on : : : Health : : : : : : : hear : : : : :, : heard : : Official KENNEDY kinds : kind : : : : : : : : :,,, :,,, :,, : : :, :, : : : : : : :, :,,, : : :,, :,, :,, : :, Kneedler : :, : :, :,, :, :, : : : :, : : :, : :, : :, : :, : : :, :,,, :, : :, :, :, : : :, :,,, : :, : :, : : :, : :,,,, : : :, : : :,, : know : : : :, :, : :, : :,,, :,,, :,,, :, : :, : :, : : :, :, : : :, :, : :, : : : :, : : : : :, :, :, : : : : :, knowing : knows : : LL : : : label :,:, : : :labels ::lack :laid :language ::,, : late : : law : : : : : : lawyers : lawyer's : lead : : leave : leaves : leeway :, : :, left : legal : legislation : legislative : : legislator : length : let's : : :,level : : :, : : : limit :, : : : : : : : :, : :, : : : limitation : : : : : : :,,,: :,: :,: : :, : :,limitations : : : : : : : :,limited : : : : : : limiting : Irwin :, : issue : : : : : : :, : : issued : : issues : JJOHN : : :Joint : : judge : : :judgment :judicial :: ::, : : ::,judiciary :jurisdiction ::, : : ::, : : ::inspector : instance : : instituted : institutional : intact : intend : intended : : : intends : : : intent :, :, : intention : : intentional : : : : intentionally : : interest : interfere : intermediary intermediary's : : : internal : interpretation : : : : interpreted : interpreting intra-agency : : : invalid : invitation : invoke :, invoking : involve : involved : : : : involving : jurisdictional:,, : :, : : : : :,,,:, : :, :, : : : :, :, : Kagan : : : : :, : :, : : : : : : : : :, : jurisprudence KATHLEEN K: : Justice : : keep : : Official limits : : : : : : :, : miscounted : : : miscount : non-arbitrary : : : :, misleading little : : non-waivable : normally : mismatch : Northern : line : litigation : matters : mean : : : :, :, :, misrepresented noted : :, : : : : :, : : means : : : : : meant : locate : long : : :, : : mistake : mistakes : money : : number : months : morning : motion : : : : : missed : notice : :, : :, : notices : look : : numbers : longstanding nursing : notwithstandi... : : : : Medical : : Medicare : mysterious : : : : :, : : looked : looking : lose : : lot : lower : M mandating : mandatory :,, :, : :, Manning : : :, :,, : : : : : : :, : :, : Massachusetts : massive : match : : matching : : :, material : matter : : : : : : : :, : : members : mention : mentioned : : : mere : : merely : merit : million :,minute : minutes : miscalculation : : misconduct : :,,:, : : :,: :, :,,: : : : : :, : : : : : ought : outset : : outside : overpayment : : overpayments :, PP :Pacific :, PAGE : paid : : :paper : papers :paragraph:, : : parallels :parliamentary:part : : :, : : : : :particular : :party : : :,party's :passed ::,,,passes : patients :payment ::,,:, : :: :: :, pays :pending :,N N :, : narrow :, : : : : nature : necessarily : necessary : : : : O O : : obtain : occur : oh : okay : : : : one-way :, open : : : : : operation : : opinion : narrowed : narrower : once : narrowing old : open-ended : particularlyneed : :, : : :, opportunity : : needed : net : never : : opposed : opposite : : : new : : oral : :,, nonjurisdictio... order : nonmandatory ordinary : : : : : : : : : : payments : Pennsylvania : people : percent : percentage : : : : : : : : : : pointed : period : : policy : : : : : :, poor : :, : : portrays : position : : : :, procedure : : : procedures possible : possibly : : potentially : power :,, powers : : precise : : preclude : predominant : : : present : : : permanently permissible : : : permissibly : : permit : permits : permitted : : : : person : : : :, : : petitioning : phrase : phraseology : pieces : place : : : :, : persuade : petitioned : prescribed : Petitioner : : presumably : presumption : : : :, plaintiff : plaintiffs : plausible : play : plays : prevail : please : : prevent : preventing pretty : : : Official primarily : prove : principle : : : provide : : principles : : : probably : problem : : : : procedural : : : process : : : : : processing : : : : provided : : : : provider : :, : :, : : : :,, :, : : : :,, : : : : : : :, : :, : providers : :, : : :, : : :,, :,, : : : :, : :, : : : : :, : :, : : : : : : : : :, : provides : :, : : : : : program : : promulgated : : : : : pronouncement provision : :, : :, : : : : :, : : : : proof : proposition provisions : :,,, : : PRRB : protective : public : : : : put : : : : puts : putting : : Qquestion : :,, : : :,: :,:,,,: :: :, :,, : :: :: :,:questions : quite : : :, : RR :raise :raised :: :raises :raising ::ratchet :,read : : : :reading :: :reads :really : : : :: : : : :reason :: :: :,:reasonable :presented : programs : prohibited : prohibits : promised : : : presenting : plus : point : : :, : : prevents : pre-Civil : prototypical : purposes : : pursuant : Official : : : : reasonableness reasons : : : rebuttal : : : recalculate : recall : recognize : : recognized : record : records : : : recourse :, recover : : : : requirement requires : : :, :,, : :, : : :, :,,, requiring : :, : regulations : : :, : :, : : : : : requisite : reserve : resolve : respect : : : : :, : : regulatory : : Reimbursement :, relate : relates : relaxation : relevant :, respond : Respondent : Respondents : : : : : : :, : : : recoveries : relief : recovering : :, : : :, : : : : : : :, : : : : : : rise : : ROBERT : : : ROBERTS : :,, : : :, : : :, : :,, : :, : rulemaking : : : :,, : rules :, : : :, : :, : : : : : :, :,,, ruling : : : : : : run : Russell : Roth : : : : : : : responsibility result :, remaining : remains : remand : responding : response : :,,,, : : :, : : :, : : :, : :,,, :, : : :, :,, :,,, : :, : :, : :, : :, : :, : :, : :, : :, :, reviewing : rubric : revisit : remedy : Remember : resulted : rendered : return : reopened : revealed : reopening : reversed : reversing : review :, : : : :, :,, :, : : :, :, :,, : :, :, : :,, reply : : report : reports : : : repose : reproduce : revisiting : request :, Revolutionary requested : require : required : : : :, : :,, right : : : rule : :,, :, : :,,, : : :,,, :, : : : SS : :,, :, : safety :sake : sanctions : sat : save :saw : saying : : : :,: :: :,: :says :,: :: : :, : : :: : : : scale :Scalia :,: :,:, : : :: :,: reenacted : refer : reference : : referred : refers : refuting : regard : regarding : regardless : regime : : : Regional : : Register : regularity : regulating : : regulation : : :, : : : :,, :, : : :,, sophisticated Official :,,, suppose : : :, : : : :, supposed : Supreme :, :, : sure : : :, : : : scientists : Sebelius : : second : : secondly : secretarial : : : Secretary : : :,, :, :, : :, :,,, : : : : : : :, :, : :, : : : :, :, : : :, :, : : : : : : :,, : : : : Secretary's : : : : : : : : :,, : :, secretive : Section : : Security : set : : : : : sets : : : setting :, share : : shield : : shielded : Shinseki : show : : : showed : shows : side :,, : : sides : signal : signaled : : similar : : : :,, : : simple : simply :, : : : : : : single : sitting : situation : : : : : : sophistication :, : Sorry : sort : :, : : :,, : statutes : : : :, sorts : Sotomayor :, statute's : statutory : :,, : : : :, : : :, :, : :,, :, : : :, :, : :, : straight : :,, :, story : step : : : Sotomayor's : sound : Southwest : speak : special : specific : specifically : : : specified : spend : spent : spits : split : SSI : stands : start : statement : States :, strict : string : strongest : subject : :, : : : : : :, : : :, : : submit : submitted : : Subsection : : substantive : suggest : suggested : : suggesting : :, situations : see : : Social : : seek : seeking : self-limiting : sense : separate : services : : : :, statute : : : Solicitor : : solicitude : Solid : solution : somebody : soon : :, : : : :, : :, : :,, : :, : : :, suggests : suits : summary : superimposing : support : supports : susceptible : systematic : systems : TT :,tactic : take : : : taken : talk : : :talked : talking : : : :,,, : : :, : : talks :, tax : technical : technically : terms : : :,:test : tested : Thank : :, : :, : Thats : theory :, thing : : : ::things :,: :: Official think :, :, :, :, : : : :, : :, : :,, : : : : : :, : : : : : third : thought : : : : : : : : three : : : thumb : tied : till : time :,, :, : :, : : : : : :, : : : : :, : : :, : : : :, : : :, : : : : :, timely : times :, tolled : tolling : : :, :, :, :, : : : : :,,,, :, : : :, : :, :,, : : : :,, : :, :,, :,,, : : : :, :,,, : : : total : totally : touchstone turns : : v : : : We'll : : two : : VA :, valid : :,, : : : we're : : : : : we've : : type : : : typically : Vermont : widespread validity : U unclear : underlying veterans :, :, : view : :, : : : : willing : withheld : : : : :, underpayment underpaid : viewed : views : witnesses : won : wonder : word : : underpin : waited :, worded : understand : waiver : words : : : want : : : W understood : :, : wanted : War : : : warranted : : touts : traditional : undetectable : : : undisclosed : : : : unfolds : unfortunately transparent : treat : : Undoubtedly Washington :,, : : wasn't : : : : : treated : : : : :, : treating : tribunal : : : : tried : : trigger : : : Union :, United :, unlimited : : : : unprecedented Waste : way : : :, : : : : : : : : : : :, unreasonable : : :, : triggered : true :,, : : : trust : try : : : trying : : : : Tuesday : unusual : use : : : : : : :,, uses : U.S : V ways : : : : weight : : : weird : went : weren't : : Western : : : : : wouldn't : : write : writing : written : wrong : : X x :, Y Yankee : year : years : : : : : :, : : :, :, : :,, : :,, : : :, : :, : : :, :,, :,, :, York : $ $ : : : : : : : : : - : : : : : gg : : :, oo : : :, : : : : : :, : :, : : -day :, : : :, : :, : : : : : :, : : : : : : O : : : : : :, :,, Official :,, : :,,, : : : :, : -plus : -year : : : : : : : : : : : : : , : : : :, : : : , : : : : : . : . : : : : : :, : : : , : : -day : : : 