 v. Official IN THE SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES Washington, D.C. Monday, March , - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - x DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH AND : : HUMAN SERVICES, ET AL., Petitioners : No. - : FLORIDA, ET AL. : - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - x argument before the Supreme Court of the United States at : a.m. APPEARANCES: ROBERT A. LONG, ESQ., Washington, D.C.; as DONALD B. VERRILLI, JR., ESQ., Solicitor General, GREGORY G. KATSAS, ESQ., Washington, D.C.; for Department of Justice, Washington, D.C.; for Petitioners. The above-entitled matter came on for oral Court-appointed amicus curiae. Respondents. As the Court-appointed amicus curiae Official C O N T E N T S PAGE As the Court-appointed amicus curiae On behalf of the Petitioners On behalf of the Respondents ORAL ARGUMENT OF ORAL ARGUMENT OF ROBERT A. LONG, ESQ. DONALD B. VERRILLI, JR., ESQ. ORAL ARGUMENT OF GREGORY G. KATSAS, ESQ. REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF ROBERT A. LONG, ESQ. Official P R O C E E D I N G S of Health and Human Services v. Florida. please the Court: The Anti-Injunction Act imposes a "pay CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: We will hear (: a.m.) AS THE COURT-APPOINTED AMICUS CURIAE MR. LONG: Mr. Chief Justice, and may it Mr. Long. ORAL ARGUMENT OF ROBERT A. LONG argument this morning in Case Number -, Department first, litigate later" rule that is central to Federal tax assessment and collection. The Act applies to essentially every tax penalty in the Internal Revenue special exception for the penalty imposed by section A. On the contrary, there are three reasons to conclude that the Anti-Injunction Act applies here. First, Congress directed that the section A penalty shall be assessed and collected in the same manner as taxes. Second, Congress provided that penalties are included in taxes for assessment purposes. And, third, the section A penalty bears the key indicia of a tax.Code. There is no reason to think that Congress made a Congress directed that the section A Official of any tax may be maintained in any court by any JUSTICE SCALIA: Well, that depends, as -- penalty shall be assessed and collected in the same manner as taxes. That directive triggers the Anti-Injunction Act, which provides that "no suit for the purpose of restraining the assessment or collection person." as the Government points out, on whether that directive is a directive to the Secretary of the Treasury as to answer to that, Justice Scalia. First, the text does taxes in the same manner; it just says that it shall be assessed in the same manner as a tax, without addressing any party particularly. how he goes about getting this penalty, or rather a directive to him and to the courts. All of the other directives there seem to me to be addressed to the Secretary. Why should this one be directed to the courts? When you say "in the same manner," he goes about doing it in the same manner, but the courts simply accept that -- that manner of proceeding but nonetheless adjudicate the cases. not say that the Secretary shall assess and collect JUSTICE SCALIA: Well, he's assessing and collecting it in the same manner as a tax. MR. LONG: Well, I think I have a three-part Official MR. LONG: Well, the assessment -- the other two parts of the answer are, as a practical matter, I don't think there's any dispute in this case that if the Anti-Injunction Act does not apply, this penalty, the section A penalty, will as a practical matter be assessed and collected in a very different manner from other taxes and other tax penalties. There are three main differences. First, when the Anti-Injunction Act applies, you have to pay Now, if -- if the Anti-Injunction Act does not apply here, none of those rules apply. And that's not just for this case; it will be for every challenge the tax or the penalty first and then litigate later to get it back with interest. Second, you have to exhaust administrative remedies. Even after you pay the tax, you can't immediately go to court. You have to go to the Secretary and give the Secretary at least months to see if the matter can be resolved administratively. And, third, even in the very carefully defined situations in which Congress has permitted a challenge to a tax or a penalty before it's paid, the Secretary has to make the first move. The taxpayer is never allowed to rush into court before the tax -- before the Secretary sends a notice of deficiency to start the process. Official wait for the Secretary to make the -- JUSTICE KENNEDY: Why will the JUSTICE KENNEDY: Well, but courts apply the MR. LONG: Well, because if the Anti-Injunction Act doesn't apply, there's no to a section A penalty going forward. The taxpayer will be able to go to court at any time without exhausting administrative remedies; there will be none of the limitations that apply in terms of you have to administrative remedies rule not be applicable, exhaustion rule not be applicable? prohibition on courts restraining the assessment or collection of this penalty, and you can simply -- exhaustion rule. I mean, I know you've studied this. well, you haven't exhausted your remedies; no injunction? MR. LONG: Well, in -- you could do that, I think, as a matter of -- of common law or a judicially all -- I mean, the Anti-Injunction Act is an absolutely central statute to litigation -- JUSTICE KENNEDY: Yes. Yes. MR. LONG: -- about taxes. And the code says -- first it says you must pay the tax first and I'm just not following it. Why couldn't the court say, imposed doctrine, but in the code itself, which is Official of these provisions are extremely specific, with very CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: But they would apply then litigate. So, that's the baseline. And then, in addition, it says you must -- I mean, it's not common law; it's in the code -- you must apply for a refund, you must wait at least months. I mean, that's -- many specific time limits. even if the rule is not jurisdictional. The only difference would be that the court could enforce it or not enforce it in particular cases, which brings me to the Davis case, which I think is your biggest hurdle. It's a case quite similar to this in which the constitutionality of the Social Security Act was at issue, and the government waived its right to insist upon the application of this Act. waive it. So, are you asking us to overrule the Davis case? Anti-Injunction Act as simply codifying the pre-statutory equitable principles that usually, but not always, prohibited a court from enjoining the assessment or collection of taxes. So, that understanding, which decided during a period when this Court interpreted the is what was the basis for the Helvering v. Davis Of course, if it's jurisdictional, you can't MR. LONG: Well, Helvering v. Davis was Official JUSTICE GINSBURG: Mr. Long, why don't we decision, was rejected by the Court in Williams Packing and a series of subsequent cases -- Bob Jones. And so, I would say, effectively, the Davis case has been overruled by subsequent decisions of this Court. simply follow the statutory language? I know that you've argued that the Davis case has been overtaken by later cases, but the language of the Anti-Injunction Act is "no suit shall be maintained." It's remarkably similar to the language in -- that was at issue in Reed Elsevier: "No civil action for infringement ... shall be instituted." And that formulation, "no suit may be maintained," contrasts with the Tax Injunction Act. It says the district court shall not enjoin. That Tax Injunction Act is the same pattern as , which says "courts of the United States may not stay a proceeding in State court." So, both of those formulas, the TIA and the no injunction against proceedings at State court, are directed to "court." The Anti-Injunction Act, like the statute at issue in Reed Elsevier, says "no suit shall be maintained." And it has been argued that that is suitor-directed in contrast to court-directed. MR. LONG: Right. Well, I mean, this Court has said several times that the Tax Injunction Act was Official JUSTICE GINSBURG: But how is that different litigants. I mean, after all, a case cannot go from instituted" -- "maintained" and "instituted"? Anything turn on that? based on the Anti-Injunction Act. You're quite right, the language is different; but we submit that the Anti-Injunction Act itself, by saying that "no suit shall be maintained," is addressed to courts as well as beginning to end without the active cooperation of the court. from "no civil action for infringement shall be party could initiate an action without the active cooperation of the court, but to maintain it from cooperation. And even if -- I mean, if the Court were inclined to say as an initial matter, if this statute were coming before us for the first time today, given all of your recent decisions on jurisdiction, that you might be inclined to say this is not a jurisdictional statute, a lot of water has gone over the dam here. The Court has said multiple times that this is a jurisdictional statute. Congress has not disturbed MR. LONG: Well, it's -- I mean -- perhaps a beginning to end, again, requires the court's those decisions. To the contrary -- Official were not viewed as jurisdictional but instead were cases where the Court dismissed saying it is As I read the cases, I don't think any of MR. LONG: There's -- JUSTICE ALITO: -- rule? MR. LONG: There's certainly a number of JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Counsel -- JUSTICE ALITO: Well, the Court said that many times, but is there any case in which the result would have been different if the Anti-Injunction Act viewed as a mandatory claims-processing -- jurisdictional. them would necessarily have come out differently, because I don't think we had a case where the argument you know, even -- if it's not jurisdictional, it -- clearest way of distinguishing between the jurisdictional provision and a mandatory whether the court feels that it has an obligation to raise the issue sua sponte. Now, if there are a lot of cases that call it jurisdictional, but none of them would have come out claims-processing rule is whether it can be waived and was, well, you know, the government has waived this, so, JUSTICE ALITO: Well, the clearest -- the differently if the Anti-Injunction Act were simply a Official The Court said that there could be a suit if And on the other side, you have Davis, where there's no way the government could win and the mandatory claims-processing rule -- you have that on one side. the Court accepted a waiver by the Solicitor General; the Sunshine Anthracite coal case, where there also was a waiver; and there's the Williams Packing case, which is somewhat hard to understand as viewing the Anti-Injunction Act as a jurisdictional provision. plaintiff would suffer irreparable harm. Now, doesn't that sound like an equitable exception to the Anti-Injunction Act? best interpretation of the Court's cases is that it was interpreting a jurisdictional statute. And, indeed, in Williams Packing, the Court said it was a jurisdictional statute. simply the cases, there's more than that because Congress has not only not disturbed this Court's decisions stating that the statute is jurisdictional; they've passed numerous amendments to this Anti-Injunction Act. MR. LONG: No, I think the -- I think the But, again, even if you had doubt about CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, it seems -- Official MR. LONG: Well, what you have said, back and forth on whether this is a jurisdictional you can't separate those two points. The idea that Congress has acquiesced in what we have said only helps you if what we have said is fairly consistent. And you, yourself, point out in the brief that we've kind of gone provision or not. So, even if Congress acquiesced in it, I'm not sure what they acquiesced in. Mr. Chief Justice, has been absolutely consistent for Williams Packing, there was South Carolina v. Regan. equitable exception to the rule, which would be inconsistent with thinking that the rule is jurisdictional. years, since the Williams Packing case. The period of inconsistency was after -- the first years, since the statute was enacted in , and there was a period, as I said, when the Court was allowing extraordinary circumstances exceptions and equitable exceptions, but then, very quickly, it cut back on that. And since --and since Williams Packing, you've been utterly consistent -- MR. LONG: Well, again, I mean, I think the best understanding of South Carolina v. Regan is not JUSTICE KAGAN: Well, even since And that case can also be understood as a kind of Official exception --the power of the court to hear a case. From all the questions here, I count at that it's an equitable exception, but it's the Court interpreting a jurisdictional statute as it would interpret any statute in light of its purpose, and deciding in that very special case, it's a very narrow JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Mr. Long, in Bowles, the Court looked to the long history of appellate issues as being jurisdictional in its traditional sense, not as a claim-processing rule, but as a pure jurisdiction rule, least four cases in the Court's history where the Court has accepted a waiver by the Solicitor General and reached a tax issue. I have at least three cases, one exceptions to that rule were read in. define jurisdictional statutes versus claim-processing statutes in recent times, isn't the fairer statement that Congress has accepted that in the extraordinary case, we will hear the case? because in many of these amendments which have come in the 's and the 's and the s, the Congress has of them just mentioned by Justice Kagan, where actually framed the limited exceptions to the Given that history, regardless of how we MR. LONG: No. No, Justice Sotomayor, Official MR. LONG: Well, but Congress says, notwithstanding , the court "shall have JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Could you go back to the JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: But doesn't that just prove that it knows that the court will impose a Anti-Injunction Act in jurisdictional terms. And it has written many of the express exceptions by saying notwithstanding section -- claim-processing rule in many circumstances, and so, in those in which it specifically doesn't want the court to, it has to be clearer? jurisdiction" to restrain the assessment and collection of taxes in very limited -- question that Justice Alito asked? Assuming we find that this is not jurisdictional, what's the parade of horribles that you see occurring if we call this a mandatory claim-processing rule? What kinds of cases do you imagine that courts will reach? MR. LONG: Right. Well, first of all, I think you'd be saying that for the refund statute as well as for the Anti-Injunction Act, which has very similar wording. So, if the Anti-Injunction Act is not jurisdictional, I think that's also going to apply to the refund statute, the statute that says you have to first ask for a refund and file, you know, within Official MR. LONG: Right. JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: -- what cases do you JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: That wasn't my question. MR. LONG: I'm sorry. JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: My question was, if we certain time. So, it would be -- it would be both of those statutes. And, you know, we are dealing with taxes here. If people can litigate -- deem this a mandatory claim-processing rule --imagine courts will reach on what grounds? Assuming the government does its job and comes in and raises the AIA as an immediate defense -- class of cases that occurs to me, where, if the government does not raise it in a timely way, it could be waived. I would think plaintiffs would see if there wouldn't immediately be apparent that it -- competency of the government, which I don't, but what other types of cases? MR. LONG: Well, that -- JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: -- what -- where can a court then reach the question, despite -- MR. LONG: That would certainly be the first was some clever way they could get a suit going that JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Assumes the lack of JUSTICE SCALIA: Mr. Long, I don't think Official court deciding whether you're going to make an you're going to come up with any, but I think your response is you could say that about any jurisdictional rule. If it's not jurisdictional, what's going to happen is you're going to have an intelligent Federal exception, and there will be no parade of horribles because all Federal courts are intelligent. (Laughter.) JUSTICE SCALIA: So, it seems to me it's a question you can't answer. It's a question which asks why should there be any jurisdictional rules? And you think there should be. honestly, I can't predict what would happen, but I would say that not all people who litigate about Federal taxes are necessarily rational. And I think there would be a great -- JUSTICE GINSBURG: Mr. Long -- JUSTICE BREYER: I just don't want to lose the second half of your argument. And we've spent all the time so far on jurisdiction. And I accept pretty much -- I'm probably leaning in your favor on jurisdiction, but where I see the problem is in the second part, because the second part says "restraining MR. LONG: And, Justice Scalia, I mean, the assessment or collection of any tax." Official Now, here, Congress has nowhere used the MR. LONG: Right. JUSTICE BREYER: So, why does it fall within MR. LONG: Right. JUSTICE BREYER: -- and this is not attached to a tax. It is attached to a health care requirement. word "tax." What it says is "penalty." Moreover, this is not in the Internal Revenue Code but for purposes of collection. And so, why is this a tax? And I know you point to certain sentences that talk about taxes within the code -- that word? MR. LONG: Well, I mean, the first point is our -- our initial submission is you don't have to determine that this is a tax in order to find that the Anti-Injunction Act applies, because Congress very specifically said that it shall be assessed and collected in the same manner as a tax, even if it's a tax penalty and not a tax. So, that's one argument -- JUSTICE BREYER: But that doesn't mean the AIA applies. I mean -- and then they provide some exceptions, but it doesn't mean the AIA applies. It says "in the same manner as." It is then attached to chapter , when that -- it references that Official revenue sources. And here, an advance attack on this as being "the manner of." Well, that it's being applied or if it's being collected in the same manner as a tax doesn't automatically make it a tax, particularly since the reasons for the AIA are to prevent interference with does not interfere with the collection of revenues. I mean, that's -- you've read the arguments, as have I. But I'd like to know what you say succinctly in response to those arguments. MR. LONG: So, specifically on the argument that it is actually a tax, even setting aside the point that it should be assessed and collected in the same manner as a tax, the Anti-Injunction Act uses the term "tax"; it doesn't define it. Somewhat to my surprise, "tax" is not defined anywhere in the Internal Revenue Code. In about the time that Congress passed the Anti-Injunction Act, "tax" had a very broad definition. It's broad enough to include this exaction, which is codified in the Internal Revenue Code. It's part of the taxpayer's annual income tax return. The amount of the liability and whether you owe the liability is based in part on your income. It's assessed and collected by the IRS. JUSTICE SCALIA: There's at least some doubt about it, Mr. Long, for the reasons that Justice Breyer Official MR. LONG: Well, I mean, the Anti-Injunction And -- JUSTICE GINSBURG: Mr. Long, you said clear. Whatever else it is, it's easy to think that said, and I thought that we had a -- a principle that ousters of jurisdiction are narrowly construed; that, unless it's clear, courts are not deprived of jurisdiction. And I find it hard to think that this is it's not clear. Act applies not only to every tax in the code but, as far as I can tell, to every tax penalty in the code. before -- and I think you were quite right -- that the Tax Injunction Act is modeled on the Anti-Injunction Act. And, under the Tax Injunction Act, what -- what can't be enjoined is an assessment for the purpose of raising revenue. The Tax Injunction Act does not apply to penalties that are designed to induce compliance with the law, rather than to raise revenue. And this is not a revenue-raising measure because, if it's successful, they -- nobody will pay the penalty, and there will be no revenue to raise. said that they had gotten out of the business of trying to determine whether an exaction is primarily revenue-raising or primarily regulatory. And this one MR. LONG: Well, in Bob Jones, the Court Official JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: But Bob Jones involved a MR. LONG: That's -- that's absolutely statute where it denominated the exaction as a tax. certainly raises -- is expected to raise very substantial amounts of revenues, at least $ billion a year by the -- MR. LONG: That's -- yes. JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Here we have one where the Congress is not denominating it a -- as a tax; it's denominating it as a penalty. right, and that's obviously why -- if it were called a tax, there would be absolutely no question that the Anti-Injunction Act applies. the one following , the AIA, it does very clearly make a difference -- -- make a difference between tax and penalties. It's very explicit. where tax -- JUSTICE BREYER: The best collection I've found in your favor, I think, is in Mortimer Caplin's brief on page , . He has a whole list. All right? So -- I let my law clerk to look all those up. And it MR. LONG: Yes, that's -- it does; that is correct. And there are many other places in the code JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Absolutely. But even the section of the code that you referred to previously, Official in some instances, they were deemed by the code to be addition, the underlying AIA reason, which is to say to the Solicitor General: We don't care what you think; we, in Congress, don't want you in court where the revenue of a State -- Tax Injunction Act -- or the revenue of the Federal Government is at stake, and, therefore, you can't waive it. seems to me that they all fall into the categories of either, one, these are penalties that were penalties assessed for not paying taxes; or, two, they involve matters that were called by the court taxes; or, three, taxes. Now, what we have here is something that's in a different statute that doesn't use the word "tax" once, except for a collection device and, in fact, in and here there are all the differences I just mentioned. So, I ask that because I want to hear your response. say are related in any -- in any close way to some other tax provision. There's a penalty -- it's discussed in the briefs -- for selling diesel fuel that doesn't comply with EPA's regulations, you know. So, there are all kinds of penalties in the code, and I think it's -- Now, I got that. Here it's not at stake, MR. LONG: Well, I mean, there are penalties in the Internal Revenue Code that you really couldn't Official JUSTICE KAGAN: Mr. Long, aren't there that it's reliable. places in this Act -- fees and penalties -- that were specifically put under the Anti-Injunction Act? There's one on health care plans, there's one on pharmaceutical manufacturers, where Congress specifically said the Anti-Injunction Act is triggered for those. It does not say that here. Wouldn't that suggest that Congress meant for a different result to obtain? the language the Anti-Injunction Act "shall apply" -- JUSTICE KAGAN: No, but it -- in section and in section , it specifically referred -- where the Anti-Injunction Act is. lots of administration and procedure provisions, but those are fees, and they're not -- Congress did not provide, you know, in the sections themselves that they should be paid as part of a tax return. So, they were free-standing fees. And by using that subtitle F language, Congress plugged in a whole set of rules for how to collect and administer the fees, and it went not MR. LONG: Right. JUSTICE KAGAN: -- to the part of the code just to assessment and collection -- and the IRS has MR. LONG: Well, I mean, Congress didn't use MR. LONG: All of subtitle F, which picks up Official And, yes, I grant you, you could look at So, I think it would be a mistake to look at want the Anti-Injunction Act to apply. They're actually recognized this -- but to examination, privacy, a whole series of additional things. that language and say, oh, here's Congress saying they doing more than that. section A, the individual coverage requirement, and say, well, they could have been clearer about saying the Anti-Injunction Act applied. And that's certainly true, but, again, they were trying to accomplish a lot. And it's -- JUSTICE KENNEDY: It's easier to talk about this case if we just forget the words "for the purpose of restraining assessment or collection." In a sense, that brings the jurisdictional question and Justice Breyer's question together. It seems to me -- maybe you could just comment on that language. Is that sort of language usually contained in a jurisdictional provision? I mean, you often don't know the purpose of a suit until after the thing is under way. I can see it with malicious prosecution and some civil rights cases. Does it strike you as somewhat unusual to have this provision in a jurisdictional sense? Official JUSTICE GINSBURG: Mr. Long, there's another challenging the must-buy provision, and the argument is essentially unchanged since , and it -- you know, I MR. LONG: It does strike me, honestly -- JUSTICE KENNEDY: Yes. Excuse me. MR. LONG: -- as a bit unusual, but this is an old statute. I mean, this -- the core language is think that's part of the explanation for it. And, again, it's, you know, become the center of a series of provisions that very carefully control the circumstances in which litigation about Federal taxes can take place. argument that has been made that I would like you to address, and that is all this talk about tax penalty -- it's all beside the point because this suit is not challenging the penalty. This is a suit that is made that, if, indeed, "must-buy" is constitutional, then these complainants will not resist the penalty. So, what they're seeking is a determination that the "must-buy" requirement, stated separately from the penalty, that the "must-buy" is unconstitutional. And, if that's so, that's the end of the case; if it's not so, they're not resisting the penalty. doesn't work for two reasons. I mean, first, if you look at the plaintiffs' own complaint, they clearly MR. LONG: Well, I think that argument Official MR. LONG: Well -- and -- yes, I mean, it's challenge both the minimum coverage requirement and the penalty. At page of the Joint Appendix, they challenge the requirement that the individuals obtain health care coverage or pay a penalty. JUSTICE ALITO: Well, why is that? JUSTICE GINSBURG: If that's -- if that's the problem, it's easy to amend a complaint. They can just take that out of the complaint. So, it can't turn on that. -- or another complaint would be filed, but, still, I think that's a serious problem. But even if they had filed a different complaint, I don't think you -- in this case, I don't think you can separate the minimum coverage requirement from the penalty, because the penalty is the sole means of enforcing the minimum coverage requirement. would not be satisfied if the Court were to render a judgment saying the minimum coverage requirement is invalidated; the penalty, however, remains standing. Anybody who doesn't have insurance has to pay the penalty. Then they'd have to pay a penalty equal to the cost of insurance and they wouldn't even have insurance. So, first, I mean, I think these plaintiffs So, I don't think that would be -- MR. LONG: Right. JUSTICE ALITO: -- and they say that your don't see a statement that they will, you know, never incur a penalty under any circumstances. But -- but even if that were so, what this Court has said in Americans United is the Anti-Injunction Act bars any suit, not just to enjoin the collection of your own taxes, but to enjoin the collection of anyone's taxes. obey the law --argument puts them in the position of having to disobey the law in order to obtain review of their claim. And what is your answer to that? can't find that in the record, in their declarations. I these plaintiffs were not interested in the penalty and would never pay the penalty, if they were to succeed in this case in striking down the minimum coverage penalty would fall as well, because the government couldn't collect a penalty for failing to follow an unconstitutional requirement. And so, it would still be barred because it would be a suit that would prevent the requirement, the inevitable result would be that the And so, even if it were really true that Official JUSTICE ALITO: Well, they say they want to MR. LONG: Well, I mean, first of all, I collection of some of the -- Official the effect of. Is that correct? MR. LONG: Well, I mean, this Court in the JUSTICE ALITO: Well, let me take us back to Justice Kennedy's question about the "for the purpose of" language. I take it you interpret the statute to mean the following: "For the purpose of" means having Bob Jones case, where a similar kind of argument was being made by the plaintiff in that case, said, you know, look, you know, where the -- where it's inevitable that this is what the suit is about, they're sort of two sides of the same coin, that clearly is a primary purpose of the suit. And it's -- and you can't by clever pleading get away from that. That's just the nature of the situation. JUSTICE KAGAN: But, Mr. Long, aren't you trying to rewrite the statute, in a way? The statute has two sections. One is the "you have to have insurance" section and the other is the sanction. The statute has two different sets of exceptions trying to suggest that the statute says, well, it's your choice, either buy insurance or pay a -- or pay a fee. But that's not the way the statute reads. And Congress, it must be supposed, you know, made a decision that that shouldn't be the way the statute corresponding to those two different sections. You're Official MR. LONG: Well, I would not argue that this And the reason I say that, if you look at reads, that it should instead be a regulatory command and a penalty attached to that command. statute is a perfect model of clarity, but I do think the most reasonable way to read the entire statute is that it does impose a single obligation to pay a penalty if you are an applicable individual and you're not subject to an exemption. the exemptions from the penalty, I mean, the very first one is you're exempt from the penalty because you can't afford to purchase insurance. And it just doesn't seem reasonable to me to interpret the statute as Congress having said, well, you know, this person is exempt from buy insurance; however, they still have a legal obligation to buy insurance. That just doesn't seem reasonable. understand the statute as a whole. But, again, I would say, you know, that's not essential to the question we're discussing now, of whether the Anti-Injunction Act applies. Again, you wouldn't argue it's clear, that that's the best way to paying a penalty because we find they can't afford to So, I do think, although it's -- I certainly know, I think -- Official JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Could you tell me why JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: That it is a MR. LONG: Right. Well, I mean, I think the MR. LONG: Well, in going back to -- so if, so if the result were to say simply, this is not -- oh, you think the Solicitor General's reading creates a problem? He -- I'm sorry. The Solicitor General's reading. So, now it's not -- jurisdictional bar, but there's an exemption for those items that Congress has designated solely as penalties that are not like taxes. Solicitor General's reading would probably create the fewest problems, as I understand it. I mean, my -- my main objection to the Solicitor General's reading is I don't think it makes a whole lot of sense. I mean, basically, the Solicitor General says every penalty in the Internal Revenue Code, every other penalty in the Affordable Care Act is -- carrying it too far, because he says if a penalty is designated as a tax by Congress, then it's subject to the AIA, and that's most of the code, the tax code. And he says for those portions of the Affordable Care Act that designate things as taxes, the AIA applies. So, JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Oh that's not -- that's Official the AIA. MR. LONG: Right. Right. JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: And not indicated that MR. LONG: Right. JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: They don't fall within it's only -- and I haven't found another statute. I'm going to ask him if there's another one. It's only for those statutes in which Congress has designated something solely as a penalty. it is a tax. MR. LONG: I think my -- my take on it is if you adopted the Solicitor General's approach, there are probably three penalties for alcohol- and tobacco-related offenses at (c), , and that I think would be very difficult to distinguish from this one, and possibly the (j) penalty for failure to disclose political contributions. to reserve. CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, Mr. Long. General Verrilli. ORAL ARGUMENT OF DONALD B. VERRILLI, JR., If there are no further questions, I'd like ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONERS GENERAL VERRILLI: Mr. Chief Justice, and may it please the Court Official serves what this Court described in Clintwood Elkhorn as This case presents issues of great moment, and the Anti-Injunction Act does not bar the Court's consideration of those issues. That is so even though the Anti-Injunction Act is a jurisdictional limit that an exceedingly strong interest in protecting the financial stability of the Federal Government, and even though the minimum coverage provision of the Affordable Care Act is an exercise of Congress's taxing power as power to enact a measure not labeled as a tax, and it did so when it put section A into the Internal Revenue Code. But for purposes of the Anti-Injunction determinative. And there is no language in the Anti-Injunction Act -- excuse me -- no language in section A of the Affordable Care Act or in the Internal Revenue Code generally that provides a textual JUSTICE ALITO: Well, General Verrilli, today you're arguing that the penalty is not a tax. Tomorrow you're going to be back and you'll be arguing that the penalty is a tax. Has the Court ever held that something that well as its commerce power. Congress has authority under the taxing Act, the precise language Congress used is instruction that -- something can be a constitutional exercise of the taxing is a tax for purposes of the taxing power under the Constitution is not a tax under the Anti-Injunction Act? the Court has held in the license tax cases that power whether or not it is called a tax. And that's because the nature of the inquiry that we will conduct tomorrow is different from the nature of the inquiry that we will conduct today. Tomorrow, the question is whether Congress has the authority under the taxing power to enact it, and the form of words doesn't have a dispositive effect on that analysis. Today, we're construing statutory text where the precise choice of words does have a JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Well, General, you also have the Bailey child labor tax cases, 'cause there the Court said that the tax, which was a prohibitory tax alone, was a tax subject to the AIA, and then it said it was beyond the Court's taxing power in a separate case, correct? Sotomayor, that with respect to one of the arguments that my friend from the NFIB has made in the brief, that GENERAL VERRILLI: Yes. I do think, Justice dispositive effect on the analysis. Official GENERAL VERRILLI: No, Justice Alito, but Bailey v. George is a significant problem because I Official GENERAL VERRILLI: But on the same day -- think their argument on the constitutionality under the taxing power is essentially that the Affordable Care Act provision is the same thing as the provision that was held unconstitutional in Bailey v. Drexel Furniture. JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: That's a different issue. The question Justice -- right, but on the same day as Bailey v. Drexel Furniture, the Court issued Bailey v. George, which held that the Anti-Injunction Act did bar a challenge to that provision, even though the Court had concluded that it was invalid under the tax power. been -- is clear now after Williams Packing and Bob Anti-Injunction Act doesn't apply to something that otherwise would be a tax that triggers it, you have to conclude essentially that there's no substantial argument that can be made in defense of it as a tax. We around the Anti-Injunction Act if the Court were to read it, as the amicus suggest it should be read, on that theory, but --question about your argument: If you're right about the don't have that here. So, I don't think you can get So -- and I think the reason for that has Jones, in that, in order to find that the JUSTICE GINSBURG: Mr. Verrilli, a basic Official does involve a tax, is jurisdictional? GENERAL VERRILLI: No. I apologize if I'm applying here. From the perspective of the United States -- and if I could, I'd like to take a minute on this -- the idea that the Anti-Injunction Act would be construed as not being a jurisdictional provision is very troubling, and we don't think it's correct. second part, that is, for purposes of the statute, the Anti-Injunction statute, this penalty does not constitute a tax, then does the Court need to decide whether the Anti-Injunction Act in other cases, where it creating any confusion about that, Justice Ginsburg. We think by far the better route here is to understand the statute as we have proposed that it be construed as not question, Justice Ginsburg, that you asked Mr. Long in terms of the language of the Anti-Injunction Act, (a), which can be found at page a of the appendix to our brief. language of the very next provision in the code, which is on the next page of our statutory appendix, a, which is the refund statute, which we've talked about a little bit so far this morning, (a). The refund statute this Court held in Dolan And I would, if I could, follow up on a I'd ask the Court to compare that to the Official GENERAL VERRILLI: Right. But I -- The language in (a) is virtually identical to the language in (a) -- was jurisdictional, and the Court in both Dolan and Brockamp held that the statute of limitations that applies to the refund statute cases is jurisdictional. JUSTICE KENNEDY: That is correct, although in the refund context, you have the sovereign immunity problem, in which we presume that that has not been waived. (a) -- same -- were the same statutory provision. JUSTICE KENNEDY: Yes. GENERAL VERRILLI: They were only separated out later. So, I do think that's the strongest textual indication, Justice Ginsburg, that -- that (a) is jurisdictional. JUSTICE KENNEDY: But you're correct on -- GENERAL VERRILLI: -- and (a) were the JUSTICE KAGAN: General --JUSTICE GINSBURG: But the question that I parallel. JUSTICE KENNEDY: The language is quite GENERAL VERRILLI: And, originally, they Official GENERAL VERRILLI: Yes, that is exactly our read it doesn't involve a tax that's subject to the asked you is, if you're right that this penalty is not covered by section , if you're right about that, why should we deal with the jurisdictional question at all? Because this statute, correct, the way you're reading -- Anti-Injunction Act. position. And the reason we don't -- JUSTICE GINSBURG: So -- so, you agree that we would not -- if we agree with you about the correct interpretation of the statute, we need not decide the jurisdiction. to decide the jurisdictional issue. answer? we all want to know the answer to a lot of things in this case. But -- but I do -- but I do think that the prudent course here is to construe the statute in the manner that we read it. was a discussion earlier about why does the government really care, they have competent attorneys, et cetera. (Laughter.) GENERAL VERRILLI: Justice Kennedy, I think GENERAL VERRILLI: There would be no reason JUSTICE KENNEDY: Don't you want to know the JUSTICE KENNEDY: But you indicated -- there Official I'd like you to comment on that. It's not GENERAL VERRILLI: I think there are two problems. One is the problem that Justice Scalia would seem to me that there might be some instances in But -- and you began your argument by saying it would be very troubling to say that it's not jurisdictional. for us to tell a party what's in its best interests. It which the government would want to litigate the validity of a tax right away and would want to waive. But you say it's -- that's not true; that it's very troubling. identified, that if it's not jurisdictional, then courts have authority to craft equitable exceptions. And it may seem from where we stand now that that authority is or could be very, very tightly cabined. But if -- if jurisdictional, that does empower courts to find other circumstances in which they might find it equitable to allow cases to go forward in the absence of -- despite the existence of the Anti-Injunction Act. going to stand up here and disparage the attorneys for the United States in the slightest, the reality is that if this isn't jurisdictional, then it's -- the argument -- it's open to the argument that it's subject to forfeiture by a simple omission in failing to raise it this Court were to conclude that it isn't And, second, although I certainly am not Official that this is arming the government by saying it's waivable at the government's option. in an answer. And that -- and that's a troubling prospect. JUSTICE KAGAN: General, can I ask -- JUSTICE GINSBURG: How likely is it --CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Justice Ginsburg. JUSTICE GINSBURG: How likely is it -- I mean, the government is going to be defending these suits. How likely is it that the government will overlook the Anti-Injunction Act? So, it seems to me GENERAL VERRILLI: That's -- that is not our assessment of the institutional interests of the United States, Justice Ginsburg. And we do think that the --the right way to go in this case is to read the statute as not applying to the minimum coverage provision of -- of the Affordable Care Act. calculation of the interests of the United States that authority that we sanctioned to waive the Anti-Injunction Act. And, of course, that couldn't be done if it were jurisdictional. CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: It was -- it was the your predecessor made in the Davis case. There, the Solicitor General exercised GENERAL VERRILLI: That's true, Official Anti-Injunction Act as doing no more than codifying the Mr. Chief Justice. Several points about that, though. We do agree with Mr. Long's analysis that Davis occurred in -- during a time in -- in which under the Standard Nut case, the Court had interpreted the traditional equitable principles which allowed courts discretion to conclude that in certain circumstances, a case could go forward. Williams Packing repudiated that analysis, and Bob Jones v. Simon again repudiated that analysis and said, no, we're no longer abiding by that. It is true that the Davis case has not formally been overruled, but we do think it's fundamentally inconsistent with the Court's understanding now of --JUSTICE BREYER: I thought Davis was the corporation shouldn't pay the money to the tax actually an injunction against the tax authority collecting. He's not -- they're not restraining the collection of the tax. They're saying to the taxpayer, don't pay it. GENERAL VERRILLI: Yes. JUSTICE BREYER: And the remedy is that the GENERAL VERRILLI: Yes. And -- case that -- where a shareholder sues the corporation. authority. Now, it's a little technical, but that isn't Official JUSTICE BREYER: I don't know how far that GENERAL VERRILLI: Well, in fairness, JUSTICE SCALIA: Don't do it again, because the payment of the tax. GENERAL VERRILLI: Well -- JUSTICE SCALIA: You don't want to let that gets you. Justice Breyer, the United States did intervene in the -- in the Davis case and was a party, and so -- not as far as I'd like, I guess, is the answer. I think that goes too far. I don't think that's restraining the collection of the tax. It's restraining bone go, right? (Laughter.) GENERAL VERRILLI: Our view here is that it is jurisdictional. Because it's jurisdictional as this Court understands jurisdiction now, it's not waivable. And, therefore, we don't think that -- that that part of the Davis decision is good law. Reed Elsevier? Justice Ginsburg suggested that the language was very similar in Reed Elsevier as it is here, but there are even further similarities. Reed Elsevier pointed out that the provision in question wasn't in Title . Here, too, it's not in Title . JUSTICE KAGAN: General, can I ask you about Official In Reed Elsevier, the question was So, Reed Elsevier seems in multiple respects In Reed Elsevier, it was pointed out that the provision there had numerous exceptions to it. Here, too, there are numerous exceptions that we find that have been created by the courts over the years. essentially one about timing. Come to court after you file your registration. Here, too, the question is one about timing. Come to court after you make -- after you pay your taxes. on all fours with this case. Why is that wrong? GENERAL VERRILLI: I don't think so, Justice Kagan. First, we think -- I guess I'm repeating myself and I apologize. But we think the closest analogue is the very next provision in the United States Code, (a), which this Court has held is jurisdictional, and is phrased in exactly the same way as (a). In fact, as I said, they were the same provision back in a statute that says do something first. But this statute is just a flat-out command that no suit shall be maintained to restrain --the earlier days. That's the closest analogue. This isn't -- and it's actually that's JUSTICE KAGAN: I take the point -- Official GENERAL VERRILLI: -- the assessment or do you think it's different, at all? GENERAL VERRILLI: Well, because the -- I that and function together to protect an exceedingly strong interest that the Court has held with respect to , sufficiently strong that it explains the jurisdictional nature of that. The same interest applies here. collection. JUSTICE KAGAN: -- but if you would comment on the similarities of Reed Elsevier to this case. How think the best answer to that is that there are no magic words, and that history and context matter, as the Court said in Henderson. And the history and context here is you can -- and then you can come to court. It's just a fundamentally different set of interests at stake. So, we do think that that makes a big difference. And -- Elsevier -- if you're dividing jurisdiction from claims processing -- it says you have to register before you can sue. There are a lot of things you have to do before you can sue. So, why isn't Reed Elsevier like you have to pay a filing fee before you can file a This isn't just a matter of do X and then JUSTICE GINSBURG: Why isn't Reed Official And one way I think it's helpful to get at as a jurisdictional provision. Again, if the Court agrees with our GENERAL VERRILLI: It is -- we do think it's complaint? very much in that nature and different from this case, Your Honor. this is to look at the history. We've cited a string of court of appeals cases in a footnote in our opening brief, and over time, it's been very consistent that the courts of appeals have treated the Anti-Injunction Act statutory construction, we don't need to reach this issue. But they have -- in fact, one of those cases, the Hansen case, the district court in that case had dismissed the complaint under Federal Rule of Civil Procedure (b)(). The court of appeals vacated and sent it back with instructions to dismiss under (b)(), which is the subject-matter jurisdiction provision. issue is before the Court, it is jurisdictional, but it doesn't need to be before the Court because of the statutory construction argument that we had offered. construction argument, is there any other exaction So, I do think that, to the extent this JUSTICE GINSBURG: On your statutory Official GENERAL VERRILLI: It's -- it's not quite The ones that we've identified -- I may be imposed under the Internal Revenue Code that would not qualify as a tax for Anti-Injunction Act purposes, or is A just out there all by itself? out there all by itself. There are other provisions that fall outside of subchapter B of chapter and, therefore, wouldn't be governed by the instruction in section (a), which answers the question about the applicability of the Act for most penalties. overlapping a little bit with Mr. Long here -- one is U.S.C. , which imposes certain penalties in connection with the administration of real estate investment trusts. identified in his brief, sections (a) through (c) of the code, which impose certain penalties with respect to reporting requirements for foreign corporations. Long also identified about -- about alcohol and tobacco. Now -- address, General, the question of whether there are any collateral consequences for the failure to buy -- to not of our brief, identified three provisions that Mr. There are provisions that Mr. Long We have, in addition, in footnote at page JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Could we -- could we Official The Private Respondents argue that there are GENERAL VERRILLI: Yes. That is not a buy health insurance? Is the only consequence the payment of the penalty? other collateral consequences such as for people on probation who are disobeying the law. If they don't buy health insurance, they'd be disobeying the law and could be subject to having their supervised release revoked. correct reading of the statute, Justice Sotomayor. The of minutes about the argument that was discussed as to whether this can be conceived of as a suit just challenging the requirement, which is entirely stand-alone based on inferences drawn from the exemptions, I really don't think that's right. And if I could spend a minute on it, I think it's important. The exemptions in section A -- it is only consequence that ensues is the tax penalty. And the -- we have made a representation, and it was a carefully made representation, in our brief that it is the interpretation of the agencies charged with interpreting this statute, the Treasury Department and the Department of Health and Human Services, that there is no other consequence apart from the tax penalty. And I do think, if I could talk for a couple true that there are two categories of exemptions. There Official they are -- they both function as exceptions to the a of the appendix to our brief. It provides that a person can go to the Secretary of HHS and obtain a hardship exemption for -- which would, as a formal matter here, excuse compliance with the penalty. are exemptions to the penalty and exemptions to the subsection (a) requirement. But the -- but I think, not only as a practical matter, but I think there's a textual indication and even as a legal matter, requirement. First, as a practical matter, one of those exemptions is a hardship exemption. And if the Court will just bear with me for one minute here, it's at page United States and obtained an exemption would, nonetheless, be in the position of being a law breaker. We think another way in which you can get to the same conclusion slightly differently is by is A -- A(e)(), members of Indian tribes. Members of Indian tribes are exempt only from the penalty as a formal matter under the structure of the statute here, but the reason for that is because members considering the provision on the prior page, a, which It seems to me to make very little sense to say that someone who has gone to an official of the of Indian tribes obtain their health care through the Official They were taken out of this statute because they get their health care through a different system. Indian Health Service, which is a clinic-based system that doesn't involve insurance at all, and it's an entirely different system. And it doesn't make any sense to think that persons getting their health care through the Indian Health Service are violating the law because -- because exempt only from the penalty but still under a legal obligation to have insurance, when the whole point of this is that they're supposed to be in a clinic-based system. this was inartful drafting by Congress, that, to the extent that there is an exemption under the penalty, about it, Your Honor, is that the way in which this statute is drafted doesn't permit the inference that my friends from the NFIB are trying to draw from it. indication of that, which one can find at page of our reply brief. This is a provision that is U.S.C.A. section (e). This is a provision that provides for a certification that certain individuals can get. And this is the paragraph starting with the words "Other And there is an additional textual JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Is your whole point that it's an exemption from the legal obligation? GENERAL VERRILLI: I guess what I would say Official And it says, "an individual with a provisions" contains the quote. 'certification' ... that the individual is exempt from the requirement under Section A ... by reason of section A(e)() of such Code," is entitled to a certificate that allows for enrollment in a particular program for this category of people. But you can see here, Congress is saying an exemption under A(e)(), which is the exemption from the penalty, and not the underlying requirement, is, as Congress says, an exemption from the requirement of section A. JUSTICE KAGAN: General -- JUSTICE ALITO: A says, directly, "an applicable individual shall ensure that the individual has the minimum essential coverage." And you're saying it doesn't really mean that, that if you're not subject to the penalty, you're not under an obligation to maintain the minimum essential coverage. think that's what Congress is saying, both in the provision I just pointed to, Your Honor, and by virtue of the fact -- by virtue of the way the exemptions work. I just think that's the -- reading this in context, that GENERAL VERRILLI: That's correct. And we is the stronger reading of the statute. Official JUSTICE ALITO: Suppose somebody -- CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: It makes it easy for mandate all along. You've been exempt from the penalty. the government to drop the other shoe in the future, right? You've been under the law subject to this So, all they have to do is take away the penalty. GENERAL VERRILLI: I don't -- I don't think so, Mr. Chief Justice. I don't think it makes it easy for the government in the future. We think this is the fairest reading of the statute, that the -- that the -- you cannot infer from the fact that someone is exempt from the penalty, that they're still under an obligation to have insurance. That's just not the fairest reading of the statute. the penalty, suppose a person does not purchase insurance, a person who is obligated to do so under the statute, doesn't do it, pays the penalty instead, and that person finds herself in a position where she is JUSTICE KAGAN: Could I -- JUSTICE ALITO: Suppose -- go ahead. JUSTICE KAGAN: Sorry. JUSTICE ALITO: No, go ahead. JUSTICE KAGAN: The nature of the representation you made, that the only consequence is asked the question, have you ever violated any Federal Official GENERAL VERRILLI: No. Our position is that JUSTICE KAGAN: But as long as they've paid GENERAL VERRILLI: If they've paid the tax, then they're in compliance with the law. JUSTICE BREYER: Why do you keep saying it's JUSTICE KAGAN: And that's because --GENERAL VERRILLI: That if they don't pay law, would that person have violated a federal law? person should give the answer "no." the tax, they've violated a Federal law. the penalty -- a tax? with the law. Thank you, Justice Breyer. JUSTICE BREYER: The penalty. GENERAL VERRILLI: Right. That's right. JUSTICE ALITO: Suppose a person who has been receiving medical care in an emergency room -- has no health insurance but, over the years, goes to the emergency room when the person wants medical care -- JUSTICE BREYER: Thank you. GENERAL VERRILLI: -- they're in compliance (Laughter.) GENERAL VERRILLI: If they pay the tax goes to the emergency room, and the hospital says, well, penalty -- Official JUSTICE ALITO: No, they're not facing the and say, well, you're obligated to enroll? GENERAL VERRILLI: No, I don't think so, person is eligible for Medicaid, they may well not be in a situation where they're going to face any tax penalty and therefore -- fine, you're eligible for Medicaid, enroll in Medicaid. And the person says, no, I don't want that. I want to continue to get -- just get care here from the emergency room. Will the hospital be able to point to the mandate Justice Alito, for the same reason I just gave. I think that the -- that the answer in that situation is that that person, assuming that person -- well, if that tax penalty. to continue to give them care and pay for it themselves, and not -- enrolled in Medicaid. this out and say, well, you really should -- you have a GENERAL VERRILLI: Right. Right. JUSTICE ALITO: So, the hospital will have GENERAL VERRILLI: Right. JUSTICE ALITO: -- require them to be GENERAL VERRILLI: Right. JUSTICE ALITO: Will they be able to take moral obligation to do it; the Congress of the United Official penalty. JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: General, but I thought GENERAL VERRILLI: I do think it's -- JUSTICE ALITO: No, they can't say that? GENERAL VERRILLI: I think it's certainly States has said you have to enroll? fair to say that the Congress wants people in that position to sign up for Medicaid. I think that's absolutely right. And I think the statute is structured to accomplish that objective, but the reality still is that the only consequence of noncompliance is the that people who were eligible for Medicaid weren't subject to the penalty. Am I wrong? I could be just factually wrong. penalty is keyed to income. a number of things. One is, are you making so little money that you aren't obligated to file a tax return? And if you're in that situation, you're not subject to the penalty. It's also if the cost of insurance would be more than percent of your income, you're not subject to the penalty. JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Yes. GENERAL VERRILLI: And the -- it's keyed to GENERAL VERRILLI: Well, it all -- the So, there isn't necessarily a precise Official JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: But for those people GENERAL VERRILLI: Right. As a general mapping between somebody's income level and their Medicaid eligibility at the present moment. That will depend on where things are and what the eligibility requirements are in the State. below -- matter, for people below the poverty line, it's almost inconceivable that they're ever going to be subject to the penalty, and they would, after the Act's Medicaid reforms go into place, be eligible for Medicaid at that point. tax and authority -- what we want to do is get money from these people. Most of them will bet -- that the money by buying the insurance, and that will help pay. But if they don't, they're going to pay this penalty, and that will help, too. And the fact that we put the latter in brings it within the taxing power. But as far as this Act is concerned, about the injunction, they called it a penalty and not a tax for a reason. They wanted it to fall outside that. GENERAL VERRILLI: Yes. JUSTICE BREYER: It's in a different JUSTICE BREYER: So, is your point that the chapter, et cetera. Official Is that what the heart of what you're GENERAL VERRILLI: That's the essence of it. textual instruction in the Affordable Care Act or in the CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, except you -- GENERAL VERRILLI: -- for Anti-Injunction saying? They called it a penalty. They didn't give any other Internal Revenue Code that that penalty should be treated as a tax -- Mr. Long, isn't -- I mean, I thought you just agreed with Justice Breyer that one of the purposes of the provision is to raise revenue. will raise revenue. It has been predicted by the CBO that it will raise revenue, Your Honor. But even though that's the case -- and I think that would be true of any -- of any penalty, that it will raise some revenue, but even though that's the case, there still needs to be textual instruction in the statute that this penalty should be treated as a tax for Anti-Injunction Act purposes, and that's what's lacking here. JUSTICE ALITO: After this takes effect, there may be a lot of people who are assessed the Act purposes. CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: You agree with GENERAL VERRILLI: It will -- well, it Official court? None of them are barred by the Anti-Injunction GENERAL VERRILLI: Those are two different questions to Mr. Long, all of the other doctrines, that exhaustion of remedies and related doctrines, would still be there, and the United States would rely on them in those circumstances. And -- and so, I don't think the answer is that they can all go to court, no. penalty and disagree either with whether they should be assessed the penalty at all or with the calculation of the amount of their penalty. So, under your interpretation of the Act, all of them can now go to Act? things, Justice Alito. I think for reasons that Justice Kennedy, I think, suggested in one of his commissioners of the IRS have filed a brief saying that your interpretation is going to lead to a flooded litigation. Now, they're wrong on that? GENERAL VERRILLI: Yes. We don't -- we've taken this position after very careful consideration, and we've assessed the institutional interests of the United States, and we think we're in the right place. JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: But tell me something, JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Well, why isn't -- JUSTICE ALITO: Two former -- two former why isn't this case subject to the same bars that -- Official If the Court has no further questions. CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, General. GENERAL VERRILLI: Thank you. CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Mr. Katsas. ORAL ARGUMENT OF GREGORY G. KATSAS that you list in your brief? The Tax Court, at least so far, considers constitutional challenges to statutes. So, why aren't we -- why isn't this case subject to a dismissal for failure to exhaust? GENERAL VERRILLI: We don't -- because the exhaustion would go to the individual amount owed, we think, and that's a different situation from this case. Anti-Injunction Act is jurisdictional. we think the text of the Anti-Injunction Act is unanimously held to be non-jurisdictional in Reed Elsevier. That statute said no suit shall be instituted. This statute says no suit shall be maintained. No --indistinguishable from the text of the statute that was ON BEHALF OF THE RESPONDENTS MR. KATSAS: Mr. Chief Justice, and may it please the Court: Let me begin with the question whether the Justice Ginsburg, for reasons you suggested, JUSTICE GINSBURG: They are different Official immediately after instituted unless a copyright is MR. KATSAS: Unless the copyright is register your copyright and then come back to court. JUSTICE GINSBURG: So, why isn't that like JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Big difference, though. JUSTICE GINSBURG: This says things. "Immediately" -- the Reed Elsevier statute says registered. registered. And this goes -- this goes to the character of the lawsuit. The statute in Reed Elsevier says the filing fee? Before you can maintain a suit for copyright infringement, you have to register your copyright? filing suit. The -- the analogous precondition here is pay your taxes and then come back to court. The point is -- action. It has to do with the form of relief that Congress is barring. It's not permitting -- it is not a tax case; you can come in afterwards. It's not permitting the court to exercise what otherwise would be JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: No, that -- that's not true. The suit here has nothing to do with hearing the MR. KATSAS: It -- it's a precondition to one of its powers. But whether you think of it as an exhaustion challenge, Justice Sotomayor, or else South Carolina v. Regan would say the Anti-Injunction Act doesn't apply. You are right that once you file -- once you pay your taxes and then file the refund action, the act of filing the taxes converts the suit from one seeking prospective relief into one seeking money damages. And in that sense, you could think of the statute as a remedial limitation on the courts. requirement or a remedial limitation, neither of those characterizations is jurisdictional. In Davis v. Passman, you said that a remedial limitation doesn't go -- think, is the right way of looking at it. The jurisdictional apparatus in the district court is present. Prospective relief under , money damages JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: It does seem strange to think of a -- a law that says no court can entertain a certain action and give a certain remedy as merely a claim-processing rule. What the -- the court is being ousted from -- from what would otherwise be its power to hear something. action under . If the Anti-Injunction Act were Official MR. KATSAS: It has to be the same MR. KATSAS: The suit is being delayed, I Official issuance of? MR. KATSAS: Gonzalez -- Gonzalez v. Thaler MR. KATSAS: Right. JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: -- the language of the JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: So, how do you deal with this case and our Gonzalez -- our recent Gonzalez case, jurisdiction-ousting, one might have expected it to be in Title and to qualify those statutes and to use jurisdictional limits. where we talked about -- COA statute, that no appeal will be heard absent the rests on a special rule that applies with respect to appeals from one Article III court to another. That's -- that explains Gonzalez, and it explains Bowles decade in which you have strongly gone the other direction on what counts as jurisdictional. to appeals, but we haven't said that. MR. KATSAS: Though, you came very close. In Henderson, Justice Sotomayor, you said that Bowles, which is akin to Thaler, is explained by the special rules and understandings governing appeals from one JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: There is an argument that we should just simply say that Bowles applies only before it. You have five unanimous opinions in the last Official The text in this case speaks to the suit, the cause of action of the litigant. It doesn't speak Article III court to another. And you specifically said that it does not apply to situations involving a party seeking initial judicial review of agency action, which is what we have here. So, while you're right, the texts in Bowles and Thaler are not terribly different, those cases are explained by that principle. Under Henderson, it doesn't apply to this case. to the jurisdiction or power of the court. The Anti-Injunction Act is placed in a section of the tax code governing procedure. It's not placed in -- Elsevier as one consideration. it in other cases. consideration in Reed Elsevier that cuts in our favor is the presence of exceptions. You said three in Reed Elsevier cut against jurisdictional characterization. Here, there are . And -- JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: And we haven't relied on JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Many of which themselves JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Counsel, all of those --all of that in particular -- MR. KATSAS: You did rely on that in Reed MR. KATSAS: Another -- another Official MR. KATSAS: Well, some of them have no ability of the court to restrain the assessment and speak in very clear jurisdictional language. jurisdictional language at all, and not a single one of them uses the word "jurisdiction" to describe the collection of taxes, which is what one would have expected -- JUSTICE BREYER: It basically, basically the difference -- of language is relevant. There are a lot of relevant things. But one thing that's relevant in my mind is that taxes are, for better or for worse, the life's blood of government. you go through. You can get your money back, or you go through the Tax Court, but don't do this in advance for the reason that we don't want Federal judge -- judges substituting their idea of what is a proper exception made about da, da, da, for the basic rule. No. Okay? there. You tried to apply that reason to the copyright MR. KATSAS: Yes. JUSTICE BREYER: And so, what Congress is trying to do is to say there is a procedure here that And so, there is strong reason that is law. You can't find it. Registration with the equitable defense, of when there shouldn't be an Official (Laughter.) JUSTICE BREYER: Copyright exists MR. KATSAS: Except -- JUSTICE BREYER: The language -- you're -- I copyright register is not the life's blood of anything. regardless. So, the reasoning isn't there. see the similarity of language. I've got that. But it's the reasoning, the sort of underlying reason for not wanting a waiver here that is -- has a significant role in my mind of finding that it is jurisdictional. Plus the fact that we've said it nonstop since that Northrop or whatever that other case is. reasoning, you -- you give an argument -- you give an argument why, as a policy matter, it might make sense to have a non-jurisdictional statute. But of course, this Court's recent cases time and again say Congress has to clearly rank the statute as non-jurisdictional in its text and structure. It seems to me a general appeal to clarity -- in case you wanted to answer the policy. statutory policies doesn't speak with sufficient MR. KATSAS: Justice Breyer, as to JUSTICE BREYER: That's fine. I just asked MR. KATSAS: Okay. As to policy -- as to policy, I think Helvering v. Davis is the refutation of Official that waiver. this view. It is true that in most cases, the government doesn't want and Congress doesn't want people coming into court. But Davis shows that there may be some cases including, for instance, constitutional challenges to landmark Federal statutes where the government sensibly decides that its revenue-raising purposes are better served by allowing a party to come into court and waiving its defense. That's what the Solicitor General did in Davis, and this Court accepted As for prior cases, we have the holding in Davis and the holding in all of the equitable exception cases like Williams Packing. The government -- Solicitor General waives? promote Congress's policy of ensuring -- or Congress the Solicitor General waives it? contradiction in terms. I don't disagree. I don't MR. KATSAS: You have used -- JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Why would that not MR. KATSAS: It's jurisdictional except when JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: So, why don't we say --so, why don't we say it's jurisdictional except when the explicitly says -- JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Yes. It's a disagree. Official JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: They raised it and then statute, it seems to me we would still win because the MR. KATSAS: It is a contradiction in terms. All of your cases analyze the situation as if a statute is jurisdictional, then it's not subject to waiver. If you were to construe this as such a one-off unique Solicitor General with full knowledge of the Anti-Injunction Act argument available to him affirmatively gave it up. This is not just a forfeiture where a government lawyer is -- through inadvertence fails to raise an argument. This is a case where the government -- gave it up. MR. KATSAS: They made it below. They know what it is. And not only are they not pursuing it here; they're affirmatively pursuing an argument on the other side. position that when we're talking about the jurisdiction jurisdictional to be jurisdictional? I think at a minimum, it has -- it has to either say that or at least be directed to the courts, which is a formulation you've used in your cases and which is the JUSTICE KAGAN: Mr. Katsas, is your basic of the district courts, a statute has to say it's MR. KATSAS: I wouldn't go quite that far. Official JUSTICE KAGAN: Well, how is -- I mean, I MR. KATSAS: I don't think so, Justice case and Reed Elsevier by focusing on the difference formulation that Congress used in the Tax Injunction Act but did not use in this statute. suppose one could try to make a distinction between this between instituting something and maintaining something. I'm suggesting that instituting is more what a litigant does, and maintaining, as opposed to dismissing, is more what a judge does. Kagan, because we have an adversarial system, not an inquisitorial one. The parties maintain their lawsuits, I think, is the more natural way of thinking of it. a requirement -- a Federal requirement to buy health insurance. That requirement itself is not a tax. And for that reason alone, we think the Anti-Injunction Act What the amicus effectively seeks to do is extend the Anti-Injunction Act, not just to taxes which is how the statute is written, but to free-standing, nontax legal duties. And it's just -- The purpose of this lawsuit is to challenge If I could turn -- if I could turn to the merits question on the AIA before my time runs out. doesn't apply. CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: The whole point -- Official CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: It's a command. A MR. KATSAS: It's entirely separate, and let the whole point of the suit is to prevent the collection of penalties. MR. KATSAS: Of taxes, Mr. Chief Justice. CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, prevent the collection of taxes. But the idea that the mandate is something separate from whether you want to call it a penalty or tax just doesn't seem to make much sense. me explain to you why. mandate is a command. nothing behind the command -- it's sort of, well, what happens if you don't follow the mandate, and the answer is nothing -- it seems very artificial to separate the punishment from the crime. nothing, but even assuming it were nothing, it seems to me there is a difference between what the law requires and what enforcement consequences happen to you. This statute was very deliberately written to separate mandate from penalty in several different ways. MR. KATSAS: Right. CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Now, if there's MR. KATSAS: I'm not sure the answer is They are put in separate sections. The mandate is described as a "legal requirement" no fewer Official Congress then separated out mandate general exhortation, and it's backed up by a penalty. Congress is saying you need not follow this law. It then defined a separate category of people not subject to the penalty, but subject to the mandate. I don't know what that could mean other than -- than times, times in the operative text and times in the findings. It's imposed through use of a mandatory verb "shall." The requirement is very well defined in the statute, so it can't be sloughed off as a exceptions from penalty exceptions. It defined one category of people not subject to the mandate. One would think those are the category of people as to whom CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, why would you have a requirement that is completely toothless? Pay -- you know, buy insurance or else. Or else what? Or else nothing. MR. KATSAS: Because Congress reasonably could think that at least some people will follow the law precisely because it is the law. And let me give you an example of one category of person that might be: The very poor, who are exempt from the penalty but subject to the mandate. Mr. Long says this must be a mandate exemption because it would be wholly harsh and Official That gets things exactly backwards. The very poor are the people Congress would be most unreasonable for Congress to expect people who are very poor to comply with a requirement to obtain health insurance when they have no means of doing so. concerned about with respect to the mandate to the extent one of the justifications for the mandate is to prevent emergency room cost shifting when people receive uncompensated care. So, they would have had very good reason to make the very poor subject to the mandate, and then they didn't do it in a draconian way; they gave the very poor a means of complying with the insurance mandate, and that is through the Medicaid system. the penalty would have standing? because that person is injured by compliance with the mandate. like? What would the argument be as to what the injury was? is subject to the mandate, that person is required to JUSTICE KAGAN: Mr. Katsas, do you think a person who is subject to the mandate but not subject to purchase health insurance. That's a forced acquisition MR. KATSAS: Yes, I think that person would, JUSTICE KAGAN: And what would that look MR. KATSAS: The injury -- when that person Official different -- your hypothetical plaintiff is very all sorts of adverse ramifications if they refuse to enroll in Medicaid the people who are forced into Medicaid by virtue of the mandate. of an unwanted good. It's a classic pocketbook injury. But even if I'm wrong about that question, Justice Kagan, the question of who has standing to bring the challenge that we seek to bring seems to me very different from the actual plaintiffs. We have individuals who are planning for compliance in order to avoid a penalty, which is what their affidavits say. And we have the States, who will be subject no doubt to consequences in the case. And then, we have the separate distinction between the question of who has Article III standing in order to maintain a suit and the question of who is subject to a legal obligation. And you've said in your cases that even if there may be no one who has standing to challenge a legal obligation like the incompatibility clause or something, that doesn't somehow convert the legal obligation into a legal nullity. we are wrong about everything I've said so far, the So, we don't have the problem of no adverse Finally, with respect to the States, even if States clearly fall within the exception recognized in Official mandate and incur a penalty. JUSTICE KAGAN: Could I just understand, Mr. people who will become newly eligible? South Carolina v. Regan. They are injured by the mandate because the mandate forces million new people onto their Medicaid rolls. But they are not directly subject to the mandate, nor could they violate the Katsas, when the States say that they're injured, are they talking about the people who are eligible now but who are not enrolled? Or are they also talking about MR. KATSAS: It's people who will enroll -- people who wouldn't have enrolled had they been given a voluntary choice. think there could be future eligibles who would enroll because they're subject to a legal obligation but wouldn't have enrolled if given a voluntary choice. Medicaid. That particular class is the one that gives rise to, simply in Florida alone, a pocketbook injury on the order of to $ million per year. JUSTICE KAGAN: But that does seem odd, to suggest that the State is being injured because people JUSTICE KAGAN: But who are eligible now. MR. KATSAS: That's the largest category. I But I'm happy to -- I'm happy to focus on currently eligible people who haven't enrolled in Official MR. KATSAS: They could, but they don't. JUSTICE GINSBURG: Why would -- MR. KATSAS: And in any event --JUSTICE GINSBURG: Why would somebody not choose to obtain it? Why -- that's one puzzle to me. There's this category of people who are Medicaid eligible; Medicaid doesn't cost them anything. Why would they resist enrolling? who could show up tomorrow with or without this law will show up in greater numbers. I mean, presumably the State wants to cover people whom it is declared eligible for this benefit. What the State wants to do is make Medicaid available to all who are eligible and choose to obtain it. MR. KATSAS: I -- I don't know, Justice Ginsburg. All I know is that the difference between current enrollees and people who could enroll but have not is, as I said, on the -- is a $ million delta. And -- MR. KATSAS: It's possible, but all we're talking about right now is the standing of the States. And the only arguments made against the standing of the JUSTICE GINSBURG: But it may be just that they haven't been given sufficient information to understand that this is a benefit for them. Official The second argument made against the States' standing is that the States somehow forfeit their the third-party actions are not unfettered in the sense States -- I mean, there is a classic pocketbook injury here. The only arguments made about -- against the standing of the States are, number one, this results from third-party actions. That doesn't work, because of Lujan; they are coerced in the sense of Bennett v. Spear. Those people are enrolling because they're under a legal obligation to do so. ability to challenge the constitutionality of a provision of Federal law because they voluntarily choose to participate -- there's a challenge to the individual mandate. MR. KATSAS: Yes. JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: All right? What does the fact that the State is challenging Medicaid -- how obligation that is not imposed on the State in any way? MR. KATSAS: The principal theory for State standing is that States are challenging the mandate because the mandate injures them when people are forced JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: I'm -- I'm a little bit confused, and this is what I'm confused about: There --does it give the State standing to challenge an to enroll in Medicaid. Official Now, it is true they are not directly JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Yes. That's what I'm -- MR. KATSAS: Okay. Let me -- let me try CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Yes. MR. KATSAS: In South Carolina v. Regan, the JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: -- a little confused by. MR. KATSAS: Let me try it this way -- may I subject to the mandate, but -- finish the thought? State was not subject to the tax at issue. The State was harmed as the issuer of the bonds, and the bond holders were the ones subject to the tax. So, the State is injured not because it is the direct object of the regulated party as issuer/bond holder. Mr. Katsas. minutes remaining. MR. KATSAS: Thank you, Mr. Chief Justice. CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Mr. Long, you have MR. LONG: Everyone agrees that the section A penalty shall be assessed and collected in the Federal tax, but because of its relationship to the CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, to -- REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF ROBERT A. LONG AS THE COURT-APPOINTED AMICUS CURIAE Official And I would simply ask, if you look at same manner as taxes. And the parties' principal argument why that does not make the Anti-Injunction Act applicable is that, well, that simply goes to the Secretary's activities. chapters and of the Internal Revenue Code, which are the chapters on assessment and collection, they are not just addressed to the Secretary. There are many provisions in there that are addressed to courts and indeed talk about this interaction, the very limited situations in which courts are permitted to restrain the assessment and collection of taxes. aren't -- and many of the exceptions to the provisions -- there was a statement made that none of these directly confer jurisdiction to restrain the assessment and collection of taxes. That's not true. In footnote of our opening brief, we cite several. example. That says -- I quote: "Notwithstanding the provisions of section (a), the making of such assessment or the beginning of such proceeding or levy during the time such prohibition is in force may be Anti-Injunction Act are in the assessment and collection There was a statement made that there I'll simply mention section as an enjoined by a proceeding in the proper court, including Official then only in respect of the deficiency that is the JUSTICE BREYER: All that's going to really and it's certainly an argument in your favor. The over-arching thing in my mind is it's up the Tax Court. The Tax Court shall have no jurisdiction to enjoin any action or proceeding or order any refund under this subsection unless a timely petition for redetermination of the deficiency has been filed and subject of such petition." what I'd think Congress's intent was meant to be in sticking the collection thing into chapter , and -- to Congress, within leeway. And they did not use that word "tax," and they did have a couple of exceptions. And it is true that all this language that you quote -- about the use of "tax" in the IRC. It talks about the penalties and liabilities provided by this subchapter. And we look over here, and it's a penalty and liability provided by a different law, which says collect it the IRC. See? can see pretty clearly what they're trying to do. They couldn't really care very much about interfering with you know, the first two sentences and so forth, it talks collecting this one. That's all the statutory argument. through the subchapter. And it has nothing to do with So, we've got it in a separate place. We Official making. MR. LONG: I mean, I think I'm following assessed and collected in the same manner -- JUSTICE BREYER: Yes, it is. MR. LONG: -- as a penalty in that Are you following me? MR. LONG: Well, I -- JUSTICE BREYER: You see? I'm trying to get you to focus on that kind of argument that I'm just you, but the fact that it's not in the particular subchapter for assessable penalties in my view makes no difference, because they said it's still clearly -- it's subchapter, and those penalties are collected in the same manner as taxes. rather detailed, but I think it's a rather clear indication that the Anti-Injunction Act applies. The -- the refund statute that does specifically refer to penalties -- that has nothing to do with this argument that it's assessed and collected in the same manner as a tax. That would simply go to the point that, well, you can't just call it a tax, because they've referred to it as a penalty. JUSTICE BREYER: Yes, yes. MR. LONG: And so, that's -- I think it's And, finally, on jurisdiction, you know, I Official think the key point is we have a long line of this Court's decisions that's really been ratified by Congress, with all these exceptions in jurisdictional terms. As I read Bowles and John R. Sand & Gravel, the gist of those decisions was not any sort of special rule about appeals, It's that when we have that situation, which I would submit applies as much to the collection of Federal taxes as it does to appeals from Federal district courts when we have this degree of -- of precedent, including precedent from Congress in the form of amendments to this Anti-Injunction Act, that should be -- the presumption should be that this is jurisdictional. invited by this Court to defend the proposition that the Anti-Injunction Act barred this litigation. You have ably carried out that responsibility, for which the argument in this case tomorrow. If there are no further questions. CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Mr. Long, you were MR. LONG: Thank you. CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: We will continue Court is grateful. (Whereupon, at : a.m., the case in the above-entitled matter was submitted.) Official OfficialOfficial : : :, : agencies : : :, agency : : : agree :, : :, : :, : : : :, agreed : agrees : action : : : analysis : : :, : appeals :, : :, : :, APPEARAN... analyze : annual : appellate : answer : : appendix : : : : : : :, : answers : : : : : :, : : : : : : : :, :, : applicability : applicable :, : : : Anthracite : application : Anti-Injunction applied : A abiding : ability : : able : :, ably : above-entitled : : absence : absent : absolutely : : :, : : accept : : accepted : :, : : : :,, :, : actions :, active :, activities : actual : Act's : addition : : : : additional : accomplish : : acquiesced : address : :, addressed : : : acquisition : :, : : : :, addressing : adjudicate : administer act :,, : :,, :, : :, :, :,, : administration : : : :, administrative :,, :,, : :, administrativ... :,,, adopted : : : : :,, advance : :, : adversarial : : : :, :,,,, adverse : : : affidavits : :,,, affirmatively :,, : : :,, : : : Affordable :, : : : : : :,, afford :, :, : : : : ahead :, AIA : : akin : AL :, alcohol : : Alito :,, : : :, : : : : :, : : :,,, : : : :, allow : allowed : allowing : : : allows : amend : amendments : : : Americans : :, : : :, :, applies :, : :, : :, : : :, : : : : :,, : : :,, : :, : :, :, : : : :,,, :, : : :, :, : :,, :,,, : : :, : : : : : : :, : : : : :, :, : :, apply :,, :,, :, : : : : : : :, : : approach : argue :, argued :, arguing : applying : : : : : Anybody : amicus : : anyone's : : : : apart : : : amount : apologize : : : : apparatus : apparent : amounts : analogous : appeal : analogue : : argument : :,,, : : : : : : :, : : : : :,, :,, Official : :, best : : buy : : : :, : : : : : :, : : : :, : :, : automatically : : : :, :, : available : : : arguments : avoid : : : : : arming : Article : : : artificial : aside : asked : : : : : asking : asks : assess : assessable : assessed : :, : : :, : : :, : :, assessing : assessment : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : :,,, Assumes : assuming : : : : attached :, : : attack : attorneys : : authority : a.m : : : B B : : : : back : : : : : : : : : :, : backed : backwards : Bailey :, :,, bar : : : barred : : : barring : bars : : based : : : baseline : basic : : : basically : :, basis : bear : bears : began : beginning : : : behalf :, : : benefit :, Bennett : : : :, : : buying : Cc : : : cabined :calculation: :call : : : :called :: :: :Caplin's :care : : : ::, : : :: :: :,:, : : :: :careful :carefully :: :Carolina :: :: :carried :carrying :case : :, :,, : : : :, :, : : :,:, : : :: :,: :: :,:,,,: :: :,: :, : :, : :, :, : : : : : :, cases : : :, :, : :,:, : :,,: :,: : : :,:, : :,,,:, : categories : : category : :,,,: : cause : : CBO : center : central : : certain : : : :, : :,certainly : : : : : : : : certificate : certification : : cetera : : challenge : : :,: : : :, bet : better : : : beyond : big : : biggest : billion : bit : : : : blood : : Bob : : : : : : bond : bonds : bone : Bowles : :,, : : breaker : Breyer : :,, : : :, : : :, :, : : : :, :, :, : :,, Breyer's : brief : : : : : :, : : : : : : briefs : bring :, brings : : : broad :, Brockamp : business : Official :,, challenges : : challenging :, : :, chapter : : : : chapters :, character : characterizati... : clarity : : class : : classic : : clause : clear :,, : : : : clearer : : clearest : : : characterizati... : charged : Chief :, : clearly : : : : : : : clerk : clever : : clinic-based : : :, : : : :, :, :,, : :, :, : Clintwood : :,,, :, child : choice : closest :, COA : : :, coal : close : :, : choose :, code : : collect : : : : collected : : : : :,, : :, : collecting : : : collection : : : : : : : : : : : : :,, : : : : : : :, :, : : come :, : : :, : :,, : comes : coming : : : circumstances : : : : : : : cite : cited : civil : : : : claim : claims : claims-proces... :, : comment : : : :,, : : :, command : :, : : :, :,, : :, : :, commerce : commissioners : : :, : : : : common : : : : : codified : codifying : : coerced : compare : competency : competent : claim-processi... coin : :, : : : collateral : complainants : : complaint : Congress's : :,,, :, completely : : connection : compliance : consequence :,, : : : : :, : consequences : : : : : consideration : comply : : complying : : :, conceived : considering concerned : : : conclude : : : : considers : consistent : :, : constitute : concluded : Constitution conclusion : : conduct :, confer : confused : : : confusion : Congress : :,, : : : :, :, : :, : : : :,,, : : : : :, : :, : : :, : : : : : : :, : :,, :, : :, constitutional : : : : constitutionali... : : : construction :,, construe : : construed : :, construing : contained : contains : context : :, : continue :, : contradiction : : contrary : : contrast : contrasts : Official contributions : control : convert : converts : cooperation : :, copyright :, :,, : :, core : corporation :, corporations : correct : : : : :, :, : : corresponding : cost : : : : Counsel : : count : counts : couple : : course : : : : court :, : : :, : : :, : :, : : : : : :, : :, : :, :,,, : :, :,, :,, :,, : :, :, :, : : :, : : courts :, : :, : : : : : : :, : : : : :, :, : court's : :, : : : : : : Court-appoin... : :, : : : : : : : :, : court-directed :, :, :,,, : :,, : :, : :, : : :,,, :,, : : : :, : : cover : coverage : :,,, : : : : :, covered : craft : create : created : creates : creating : crime : curiae : : : : : current : currently : cut : : cuts : DD :da :,,dam :damages ::Davis :,,: :, : : :,: :,: ::,,day :,days :deal : : dealing :decade :decide ::,decided :decides :deciding ::decision :: :decisions ::, : :,declarations:declared :deem :deemed :defend :defending :defense :: :: : : direction : directive :,,: : deficiency : :, define : : defined : : :, : definition : degree : delayed : deliberately : delta : denominated : denominating :, Department : depend : depends : deprived : describe : described : : designate : designated :, : designed : despite : : detailed : determination determinative : : : device : diesel : difference : differences : : different : : : : : : : :, : : :, : :, : : :, : : :,: differently:, : difficult : direct : directed :,: : : : directives : directly : : : : disagree : :,disclose : discretion : discussed : : discussing : discussion : dismiss : dismissal : dismissed : : disobey : disobeying : : disparage : determine : dismissing : :, : dispositive: : : :,dispute : : : distinction : : Official : :, : exemption : : :, : :, :,, : exemptions : :, : :,, : exercise : : : exercised : exhaust : : exhausted : exhausting : exhaustion : : : : : exhortation : existence : exists : expect : expected : : : explain : explained : : explains : :, explanation : explicit : face : facing : fact : : : : : : : : : factually : failing : : fails : failure : : : fair : fairer : fairest :, fairly : fairness : fall : : : : : : : far : : : :, :,, : : : : favor : : : : federal : :,, : : : : : :,: : : : : :, fee : : : feels : fees :,,: fewer : fewest : file : : : : DONALD : : : distinguish : distinguishing : district : : : : : disturbed : : dividing : doctrine : doctrines : : doing : : : : Dolan : : : : doubt : : : draconian : drafted : drafting : draw : drawn : Drexel :, drop : duties : D.C :,, : E E : :, earlier : : easier : easy : : eligibility :, EPA's : equal : eligible :, equitable : : : :,,, :,, : :, : :, : : : eligibles : Elkhorn : Elsevier :, ESQ :,, :,,, essence : :,, :,, : :, : essential : :, : :, : :, essentially : : :, : estate : et :, : : event : exaction : : : : exactly : : : examination example : : : exceedingly : : exception : : : :, : : : : exceptions emergency :,, : : empower : enact : enacted : enforce :, enforcement : enforcing : enjoin : :, : enjoined : : enjoining : enroll :, : : :, : : enrolled : :,,, enrollees : enrolling : : enrollment : :, ensues : effect : : ensure : : : effectively : ensuring : entertain : entire : entirely : : : entitled : : either : : : : :, : explicitly : : : : : : :, : : :, : : : excuse : express : extend : extent : : : extraordinary : : extremely : : : exempt :, : : FF :, Official go :, : guess : : : : :,,, : :, : : :,,, :, : :,, : :, : :, : : :, : :,,,, : :, :, : :,,, :,, : :, : : :, : : :,, : : George : getting : : : Ginsburg : : : : : : : :, : : : :,,, : : : :, :, : :,, : : : : : : : :, : :, : : :, : : goes :, : :, :, : going : : : :,, : : : : : : : :, : : Gonzalez :, :,, good : : : governed : governing : : government : : : : :, : : : : : : :,, : : : :,, : : government's : :, filed :, : : filing : :, : finally : : financial : find : : : : : : :, : : : finding : findings : finds : fine : : finish : first :, : :,, :, : : :, : : : : : : :, : : five : flat-out : flooded : Florida : : : focus : : focusing : follow : : : : :, following : : : :, footnote : : : force : forced : : : forces : foreign : forfeit : forfeiture : : forget : form : : : formal :, formally : former :, formulas : formulation : : : forth : : forward : : : found : : : four : fours : framed : free-standing : : friend : friends : fuel : full : function : : fundamentally : : Furniture : : further : : : : future :, : G G : : : : general : : : : : :, : :,, : Hhalf : Hansen : happen :,:happens : happy :, hard : : hardship : : harm : harmed : harsh : health : : : :: :,,: :,,: :: :,hear : : : :: heard : hearing : heart : held : : :, : : :: :help :, helpful : helps : Helvering : : : Henderson : : :HHS :history :,: :,:holder :holders : holding ::generally : General's :, :, : gotten : gist : give : : : : : :, great : : : : grant : grateful : Gravel : greater : given : : GREGORY :, : gives : : : : grounds : Official honestly : : Honor : : : : horribles : : hospital : :, Human : : : hurdle : hypothetical : I idea : : : : identical : identified : :,,, III : : : imagine : : immediate : immediately : : :, immunity : important : impose : : : imposed : : : : : imposes : inadvertence : : inartful : inclined :, include : included : including : : : income :, :, : incompatibility inconceivable inconsistency : : : inconsistent : : incur : : Indian :, : :, indicated : : indication : : : : indicia : indistinguisha... : individual : : :,, : : : individuals : : : induce : inevitable : : infer : inference : inferences : information : infringement : : : initial : : : initiate : injunction : :,,, :,, : : : : injured : :,, : injures : injury :, : : : inquiry :, inquisitorial : insist : instance : instances : : instituted : :, : : instituting : : institutional : : instruction : : :, instructions : insurance : :, : : :, : :, :, : : : : : : : :,, intelligent : : intent : interaction : interest : : :, interested : interests : :, : : interfere : interference : interfering : Internal : : :, : : :, : : : interpret : : : interpretation : : : :, interpreted : : interpreting : : : intervene : invalid : invalidated : investment : invited : involve : : : : involved : involving : IRC :, irreparable IRS : : : : issuance : issue : : : : : : : :, : issued : issuer : issuer/bond : issues : : : items : J job : John : Joint : Jones : : : : : : JR : : : judge : : judges : judgment : judicial : judicially : jurisdiction: :: :,:, : : :: :: :: ::jurisdictional:, :, :,,,: :,:, : : :,: :,: :,: :,: :: :,:,, : : :,:, : :, : : :,: :,:, : :, : :, : :, : :jurisdiction-o... : Official : :, :,, : : : :, :, : :, : Kennedy's : :, : : :, :, : keep : :, : Kennedy :, : :, :, : :, : : :, : :, :, : key : : :, : :,, :,,, :, : :,,, : : :,, :, keyed :, kind :, : : kinds : know : : : Justice : : : :,, :,, : : : :, :, : :, : :, : :, : :,,, : :, :, : :, : : : :,,, :,, :, : : :, :, :, : :, : :, :, : :,, :,, : : :, :,,, : :, :, : :,,,,, : :, : :,, :,, :, : : : : : : :, :,,,, :,, :,,, :,, :,,, : :, : :, : :, :, : :,,, :,,, : :, justifications : KKagan :: :,: :: :: :,: ::,,:, : :, : : : :,, Katsas : : :,, :, : : :, : :, :, : :, : : :, :, : :,,, : :, : :, : :, :, : Laughter : : : : : law : : : : :, : :, : : : : :,,, : : : :, : : : : lawsuit : : lawsuits : lawyer : lead : leaning : leeway : legal : : :, : : :, :, : : level : levy : liabilities : liability : : : license : life's : : light : limit : limitation : :, limitations : : limited : : : limits : : line : : list : : litigant : : litigants : litigate : : : : : : litigation : : : : little : : : : : : : long : :, :,, : : :,, : :, : :, : :, :,, : : :, :,, :, : :, : : :,: :,: : :,,,:,,,: :,:, : :, :, :, : :,,: : : : :,,:,,,:,,longer : Long's : look : : : : : : : : : : looked : looking : lose : lot : : : : :, : : : : : : : :, : :, : :, : :, : : :, : : : : knowledge : knows : Llabeled :labor :lack :lacking :landmark :language :,: : : : :,: :: :,: :,:,,: ::,, :, :largest : Official : : : :, noncompliance : : : : : old : omission : once : :, ones : : nonstop : nontax : non-jurisdicti... one-off : : :, open : : Northrop : opening : notice : notwithstandi... operative : opinions : nullity : opposed : number : : option : :, : : : oral : :,, : :, :,,,, : : : matters : mean :, minute : : : minutes : : : :, : : :, : mistake : : :, model : :, : modeled : moment : : : : : :, : Monday : money : : : :, : :,, : : : : : : : : means : : :, Mortimer : move : : meant : : multiple : measure : : : :, numbers : :, : months : : moral : morning : numerous : :, Nut : OO : : obey :object :objection :objective :obligated :: :: : : order : : : :,: : originally : ousted : ousters : outside : : Medicaid :, :, : : :, : : :, : : :, : :, medical : : members : :, mention : mentioned : : merely : merits : million :,: mind : : : minimum : :,, must-buy : :,, NN :, : narrow : narrowly : natural : nature : :, : : : necessarily : : : : overlapping: overlook : overrule : overruled : : overtaken : over-arching: owe : owed : Pobligation ::, : : :: ::,,: :,obtain : : : :,: :,obtained :obviously : P :need : : occurred : :, : occurring : occurs : odd : needs : neither : never : : offenses : offered : official : oh : :, Okay : : new : newly : NFIB : Packing ::, : :, : : :page : : : :,: :,:paid : : : : : : lots : Lujan : M magic : main : : maintain : : : : : maintained : :,, : : : : maintaining :, making : : : malicious : mandate : : :, :,, :,,, : :, :,,, : : :,,, :,, : mandatory : : : : : : manner : : :,,, :, : :, : :, : : :, : manufacturers : mapping : March : matter : : :, : Official :, : presume : presumption : : : : pointed : : : pretty : : : points : : : : :, policies : policy :, : :, :, : :, : political : :,, : :, poor : : :,, persons : perspective :,, portions : position : : : : : : : : phrased : picks : pharmaceutical possible : possibly : poverty : power : :,, :,,, :, : : : powers : practical :, placed :, places : plaintiff : : : : :, parade : : paragraph : parallel : part :, :, : : : : : participate : particular : : : : : particularly : : parties : : parts : party : : : : : : : passed : : Passman : pattern : pay : :, : : :,, : :, : :, : : :, : :, : : : paying : payment : : : pays : penalties : : : : :, :, : : : :,, : : :,, :, permit : person : : penalty :, permitted : : : : petition :, Petitioners : : : : :, :, :,,, : permitting : :, :, :, : : :, :,, :,,, :,, :,,, : :, :,, :,, :, : : : : :, : :, : :, :, : :,,, :,, :, : place : : :,,, :,, :,,, :,, : : :, :, : : : : : :, people : : : : :, :,, : : :,,, :,, : Plus : pocketbook :,,, : : :,, :,, : :, planning : plans : pleading : please : : : plugged : : : : : plaintiffs : : : percent : perfect : period : point : : : : : : :, : prevent : : :, : previously pre-statutory : : : primarily : primary : principal : principle : principles : : : : prior : : privacy : Private : probably : : : probation : problem : :, : : : : : problems : : procedure : : : : proceeding : : :, : precedent : :, : precise : : : precisely : precondition :, predecessor : predict : predicted : proceedings presence : present : : process : processing : presents : presumably : : program : prohibited : : prohibition : purpose : : : :, : :, : purposes : prohibitory : promote : proper : prospect : prospective : puts : : proposed : proposition prosecution : : : protect : protecting : prove : provide : : provided : :, provides : : : : provision : : : : :, : : :,, :, : : : :,, :, : :, : : : provisions : : : :,, : :, : prudent : punishment : purchase : : : pure : : : : : : :,, : pursuing : : put : : : : puzzle : Qqualify ::question ::,,:, : :, : : ::, : : :: :,:, : : ::,,,questions :: :: :quickly :quite : : : :: :quote : : :RR : : raise :: :,: ::,,,:Official raised : raises : : raising : ramifications : rank : ratified : rational : reach : :, : reached : read : : : : :, :, : : reading :, :, : : :, :, reads : : real : reality : : really : : : : : : :, : reason : : : : :, : : : : :,, : : : reasonable : :, reasonably : reasoning :, : reasons : :, : : : REBUTTAL : : receive : receiving : recognized : : record : redeterminati... : release : relevant :, : reliable : relied : relief : : : : rely : : remaining : remains : remarkably : Reed :, :,, :,, : :, : remedial : :, : :, : remedies : :, :,, : refer : references : remedy : referred : : : reforms : refund : : reply : render : repeating : : :, : reporting : representation: :, : : : :, : repudiated : : regardless : : : : refuse : refutation : require : required : Regan :, requirement: : : :,:,,:, : :, :, : : :,,: :, : register : :, : registered : registration : : : : regulated : regulations : regulatory : : rejected : related : : relationship requirements : :requires ::reserve :resist ::resisting :resolved : Official :, : shows : side :, : : Sand : satisfied : :, : : : Security : : : :, : saying : : see : : : : :,, : : : : : : : :, : : :, : : : : : sides : sign : significant : : similar : : : : : similarities : : seek : seeking : :, : seeks : similarity : selling : sends : Simon : sense : : simple : : : : : : : : :, sensibly : sent : sentences : : separate : : : :,,, : : : : separated : : simply : : : : : : : : : :,, : single : : situation : :, : : : : situations : : : slightest : slightly : sloughed : :, :, : : : : :,, : : : : says : : : : : :, : : : :, : :,, : : :,, : : : :,, : : : : : Scalia :,, : :, : : :, second : : :,, : : : rights : rise : ROBERT : :, : : : : : :, : :, :, : :,, : :, : :, respect : : : : : : : respects : Respondents : : : : response : : : responsibility : restrain : : : :, : : : : :, rests : result : : restraining : ROBERTS : role : rolls : room :, : : results : return : : : revenue : : :, : :, : :, route : : : :, : :,,, : : : : : rule : :, : : : : : :, : :, : : : : : : : : : rules : : : : runs : rush : SS : : sanction :sanctionedSecretary :, series : : : : :, :, : : : serious : served : Secretary's : serves : section :, Service :, separately : Social : sole : solely : : Solicitor : : : : :, :,, : : :,, : set : : : :, : : Services : : : : :, : : :, sets : : : : : :,, : : :, setting : shareholder shifting : shoe : show :, : sections : somebody : : somebody's: somewhat : : : sorry : : revenues : : revenue-raising :, : review : : revoked : rewrite : right : : : : : :, : :, : : : :,, : : : Official submission : supposed : : submit : : Supreme :, submitted : sure : : surprise : subsection : system :,, : subsequent : : substantial : substituting : : subtitle :, succeed : successful : succinctly : sue :, sues : suffer : sufficient : : sufficiently : suggest : : : : suggested : : : : TT :, take : : :, : : :: : taken : : takes : talk : : : ::talked ::talking : :, : talks :, tax :,,:,, : :,,, : :,: :: :, :,,,: :, :,,,:, : :,,,:,,,: :,: :: :,: :,: :,,:,,,: :,: :,: ::,,:,, : : : : : statutes : : : : : : : statutory : : : : :, : : : stay : sticking : strange : : sort : : : : : sorts : Sotomayor : standing : : :, : :, :,,, stand-alone : start : :, : starting : : :,, State :, :, : : : :, :, : :, : :, :,,, :, : : : :,, : :, stated : : :, :, : : :, :, : :, : :, : :, : : statement : : :, strike : : striking : States :, : : : :, string : strong : : : : : :, : :, : : :,, :, stronger : strongest : strongly : structure : :, : stating : statute : : structured : : :,, :,, : :, :,, : : : :,,, :,, :,,, : :,, :, : : :, : : :, : : : :, : :,, : : :,, :, : : :, : : :, : : studied : sua : suggesting : subchapter : suit : :, : : : : : :, : : :, : : :, : :, : : : : : subject : : : : : : : : :, : : : : : :, :, : :,, :, : : :, : : suits : Sunshine : supervised : suppose :, suitor-directed : subject-matter : : : : sound : sources : South :, : : : sovereign : speak : : : speaks : Spear : special : : :, : specific :, specifically : : : :,, : : spend : spent : sponte : stability : stake :, : stand :, Standard : Official treated : :, tribes :, : tried : triggered : triggers : : : : : : : understanding : : : understandings troubling : understands :, : true : : understood : : : : : : : : : : : : : trusts : try : :, trying : : :, : : : : turn : : :, two : : : : :,,, : : :,, : types : Uunanimous:unanimously: unchanged : uncompensated unconstitutio... : : : underlying: : : understand : unfettered : unique : United :, : : : : :, : : : : :, unreasonable unusual : : : unwanted : use : : : : : :, uses : : usually : : utterly : U.S.C : U.S.C.A : Vv : : :, :, : :,, : :, : : :: :vacated : validity :verb :Verrilli : : :,,:, : : :, : : :, : :, : Thank : :,, :, : :, : : : : : : :, : :, : :, :, : : theory : they'd : things : : : thing : : : :, : : : : : : : : : : :, : :, :, : : :, : : thinking : : third : : third-party : : thought : : : : : three : : : : : : : three-part : taxes :, :, : : : : : : : :,, : :, :, : : :, :, : :, :, : : : taxing :, :,,, : : taxpayer : : : taxpayer's : technical : tell : : : : term : terms : : : : : : terribly : text : : :, : : : texts : textual : : : : :, Thaler :, times : : : timely : : : :,, tightly : time : : : : : : : : : : : think : : : : : :, : TIA : : : :, : : :, : :, : : :, : :, : :,,, :,, :,, :, : :,, timing :, :, : :, : Title :, : : :,, :,, :,, : :, : :, : :, : :, : :, :, :,,, : :, :, : : :, Treasury : :, : :, : : :, : : : : tobacco : tobacco-related today : : toothless : traditional : tomorrow : : Official waiving : : : : :, : : :, : words : : :, :, : :, : : :, : : :, waives :, :, : :,,, want : : wording : :,, : :, :, : :, : :, : : : : : : :,, wanting : :,, :,,, wants : :,,, : :, :, :, Washington : : :, :, work : : : worse : wouldn't : written : : : wrong : :,, wasn't : : : : : : :, wanted : : a : (e) : : : : s : : : : : : :, : : : : s : : :,: ::(a) ::,,: : :: :,(a) ::, : versus : view : : water : : : viewed :, viewing : violate : violated : :, violating : virtually : virtue :, : voluntarily : way : : :, : : :, : :, : : : : : : : : : : : : ways : went : :, : :, Xx :, : Yyear : : years :,: :$$ :$ :: : : : : : : : : s : :, : : : :A :,:, : : : :,: :: :,: :A(e)()W : we're : voluntary : weren't : : : : : : a : : : : : : wait : : a : waivable : we've : : - : : : : : waive : : :, (b)() : : : : : (b)() :: wholly : :Williams : : : : :a : : : :, : :, : : : waiver :, : : : : win : : word :, :, : : waived : : : :,A(e)():(c) :(j) : : : : : : : (a) : : : :(a) : 