Official IN THE SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES The above-entitled matter came on for oral Washington, D.C. Tuesday, November , Petitioner - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - x LAMAR EVANS, : : No. -: v. MICHIGAN : - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - x argument before the Supreme Court of the United States at : a.m. APPEARANCES: TIMOTHY A. BAUGHMAN, ESQ., Detroit, Michigan; on behalf CURTIS E. GANNON, ESQ., Assistant to the Solicitor General, Department of Justice, Washington, D.C.; for United States, as amicus curiae, supporting Respondent. DAVID A. MORAN, ESQ., Ann Arbor, Michigan; on behalf of Petitioner. of Respondent. Official C O N T E N T S PAGE For United States, as amicus curiae, supporting the Respondent. On behalf of the Petitioner On behalf of the Petitioner On behalf of the Respondent ORAL ARGUMENT OF ORAL ARGUMENT OF DAVID A. MORAN, ESQ. TIMOTHY A. BAUGHMAN, ESQ. ORAL ARGUMENT OF CURTIS E. GANNON, ESQ. REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF DAVID A. MORAN, ESQ. A long and unbroken line of this Court's Official P R O C E E D I N G S (: a.m.) ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONER MR. MORAN: Mr. Chief Justice, and may it CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: We'll hear argument Mr. Moran. ORAL ARGUMENT OF DAVID A. MORAN next in Case -, Evans v. Michigan. please the Court: precedents stand for the principle that a judge's final determination that a defendant is not guilty is a final determination of an acquittal for -- for double jeopardy purposes, even if that determination is wrong as a how the judge labels what the acquittal is? determine -- whatever its label, what has the judge done. Has the judge made a determination that the government has failed to prove its case, as in Martin Linen, or has the government -- has the judge made a determination of something else, as in Scott, for example, pretrial delay.matter of law or as a matter of fact. And even if -- JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Do we give credence to MR. MORAN: No. No. This Court must Now, the Michigan Supreme Court -- MR. MORAN: Well, you could reserve that instructions are going to be without applying them to the facts of the case; in other words, without making a determination of the defendant's guilt or innocence. determines, quite erroneously, that it has to be a dwelling -- midway during the trial, I'm the judge, I consider this has to be a dwelling, is there any way I can make that point, make that ruling, without invoking double jeopardy? ruling to the end of the case. You could make a ruling as to the jury instructions without -- or what the jury that view, there's nothing the government can do? learned from Smith -- try to get you to reconsider that view before the defendant puts on his case. But once the defendant -- once the judge has made a final determination that the defendant is not guilty, even on multiple times that that is a final determination -- that is an acquittal, for double jeopardy purposes. JUSTICE SCALIA: Because, I suppose, the judge is the government, too.an erroneous view of the law, this Court has held JUSTICE KENNEDY: But -- but if I persist in MR. MORAN: The government can try -- we Official JUSTICE KENNEDY: But once -- once the judge MR. MORAN: Exactly. Once -- once the Official MR. MORAN: If a state chooses, JUSTICE GINSBURG: Even when the defendant to make this incorrect notion that you have to negate the higher crime, in order to convict of the lesser crime, it was the defendant that led the -- the trial judge into error. The trial judge didn't come up with this on his own. government -- JUSTICE SCALIA: So whether the unfairness adheres in the prosecution or in the judge, the guy's been treated unfairly. Justice Scalia, to vest acquittal power in its judges, it must accept the double jeopardy consequences of that. interjected this issue and the defendant urged the judge Your Honor, on defendant's motion, that's correct. But it was actually supported by the jury instructions that were in use. And actually, it was supported by the structure of the statute in question. The statute in question, under which Mr. Evans was charged, explicitly said that the building other than one specified in the preceding subsection -- that that was the correct charge that -- MR. MORAN: The judge came up with this, JUSTICE GINSBURG: But you're not arguing MR. MORAN: No. We're precluded now from Official JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: But you don't -- JUSTICE SCALIA: Counsel often encourage MR. MORAN: Yes, Justice Scalia. And -- JUSTICE SCALIA: That's what the adversary arguing that that's correct. judges to do the wrong thing. In fact, in every case, there is one of the two counsel urging the court to do the wrong thing; right? system consists of. MR. MORAN: Yes. And in Sanabria, this Court noted that point exactly, that all acquittals, whether they're by the judge or by the jury -- or I should say almost all acquittals, some are sua sponte -- almost all acquittals, whether by judge or by jury, are provide a procedure where, if a judge makes a critical ruling mid-trial, that at the request of the opposing counsel, jury proceedings are suspended for hours, to get a mandate? that, Justice Kennedy, because of Smalis. JUSTICE KENNEDY: Because of? MR. MORAN: Because of Smalis. So that was upon invitation of defense counsel. JUSTICE KENNEDY: What -- could a state and the aggrieved party can run to the court of appeals MR. MORAN: I don't think the state could do Official and go to the court of appeals. And this Court said it couldn't do that because that was essentially the situation in Smalis. You had a bench trial. The judge grants a demurrer. He says the evidence is insufficient. And then the prosecution attempted to run to the Pennsylvania appellate court. a final determination. I think -- JUSTICE KENNEDY: Well, in my hypothetical, the state said -- and this isn't a final determination; the ruling doesn't become final until you have hours MR. MORAN: Well, I think a state could make -- could -- investing acquittal power in judges could put limitations on that acquittal power. easy when you have a jury because what happens is a judge can decide whether, at the end of the prosecution's case, he's going to dismiss for insufficiency, or he can give it to the jury, and if the dismisses the case after the prosecution's judgment, but not if he sets aside the verdict, correct? JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: How would they do that? I'd like to go back to Justice Kennedy's question. It's MR. MORAN: Well, jeopardy attaches both ways, but a retry -- a reversal is possible in the -- in jury renders a verdict, set it aside. Jeopardy attaches only if the judge Official JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: In the latter. MR. MORAN: Yes. JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: So what can a state do -- some have done something -- to ensure that, even MR. MORAN: Well, the easy -- JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: So give us an example of what, in a judge trial, a state could do to ensure that the latter. if jeopardy has attached, that there can be a valid reversal; if the judge is wrong on a legal theory. a legally wrong judgment is still reversible. could it do? trial, if the judge has the power to acquit or convict and the judge acquits, I believe the Double Jeopardy Clause would preclude the state from coming up with a clever mechanism allowing -- for allowing appellate review. The Court, of course -- I mean, the state could, of course -- JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: I thought there were, in your briefs, some examples -- in someone's brief, there were some examples -- MR. MORAN: In a bench trial, Your Honor? JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: In a bench trial. What MR. MORAN: I think if -- if in a bench MR. MORAN: In a jury trial with a judge -- Official JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: No, forget about a jury bench trials, which, as the Court noted -- JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Do you know something, argument by saying there's nothing a state could ever MR. MORAN: I don't know what -- JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: You're not helping your trial. Let's go to the bench trial. do. MR. MORAN: Well, they could withdraw the power of judges to grant acquittals or convictions in the first place. In other words, they could abolish Counselor? You're sinking your hole deeper. You're not helping yourself in this argument because how does that help the system? MR. MORAN: Well, with all respect, Your Honor, the Double Jeopardy Clause here transcends the state's -- mean no state could ever say to a judge, given --given -- render a verdict on the prosecution's theory, and then set it aside? If you think the theory is not legally -- MR. MORAN: After Smith, it's clear that immediate reconsideration is a possibility. And if a state set up a system, as in Lydon v. Municipal Court, JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: I don't disagree. You Official where you have essentially a magistrate making a preliminary determination, and then it goes to a higher judge who goes trial de novo, that, of course, is permissible. But if the judge is the final arbiter -- in other words, if the judge sits in the place of the jury, this Court has said, over and over again, that a judge verdict is equivalent to a jury verdict, for purposes of Double Jeopardy. So, yes, courts -- a state could set up systems, in which judges have less power than a jury does. I'm not aware of any state that's done that. I am aware of what Nevada has done, which has said that judges can't grant mid-trial directed verdicts. And "mid-trial." those states? MR. MORAN: Yes. Yes. Nevada. JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Well, what happens in MR. MORAN: Yes. JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: What -- what is not MR. MORAN: Well, in that case, then there is no problem because, if the judge makes a that's the way in a jury trial. JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: You keep saying, mid-trial? Some states require a judge to wait. Official JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: I keep talking, not JUSTICE ALITO: If, in the middle of a focus on the bench trial process. MR. MORAN: If -- but if the judge at the that determination, consistent with the Double Jeopardy guarantee, unless the state has set up a system as in Lydon -- as Massachusetts did in Lydon. But short of that, a judge's determination is entitled to the same respect. determination after the jury verdict, then the -- then that can be appealed under Wilson. about jury verdicts, but about bench trials. I want to end of a trial renders a solemn, formal, final verdict, "I find the defendant not guilty," in a bench trial, I don't see a mechanism for -- for the state to appeal trial, a judge grants a mistrial and says -- I'm sorry, grants an acquittal and says, I think that prompt prosecution is an element of the offense, and there wasn't prompt prosecution here. Now, could there be a he thinks that that's an element of the offense? MR. MORAN: Because no part of my argument depends upon the judge's labeling. What the judge has re-prosecution in that situation? MR. MORAN: Yes, Your Honor. JUSTICE ALITO: Even though the judge says Official characterized what he had done as acquitting the done in that case is -- is a mid-trial dismissal that he called an acquittal, but it was actually a dismissal for another purpose. That's exactly what Scott was talking about. And that is like Scott, where the judge may have defendant, but he -- JUSTICE ALITO: Well, he saw a phantom element, and -- and that's what happened here, too, isn't it? MR. MORAN: Well, pretrial delay is not an element of the offense. Pretrial delay is another part of criminal procedure in this state. JUSTICE ALITO: And this -- and the fact that this was not a dwelling wasn't an element of the offense. And then Scott clarified what Martin Linen meant. Martin Linen was an attempt to distinguish between cases in which the judge makes a ruling relating some other purpose. Supreme Court drew here is that it is completely impossible to administer. And if I can give a couple of examples, the Lynch case, from the Second Circuit, was to guilt or innocence and a ruling designed to serve offense, either. MR. MORAN: But it is clearly related to the The problem with the line the Michigan Official Is bad intent simply a gloss on the There is no -- there is no substance there. willfulness element? In which case, all you've done is an effort by one circuit to attempt to administer -- to follow the Maker line, and you get questions that are completely unanswerable in that case. misconstrue an existing element. Or is it, as the dissent claimed in Lynch, a -- a new element? And these are questions like how many angels can dance on the head of a pin. They're simply semantics. It's all labeling. JUSTICE ALITO: Well, there -- that's a problem. But you're -- to come back to my earlier question, your -- what is your answer? Your answer is that, if the judge grants an acquittal based on the failure to prove anything that the judge thinks the prosecution has to prove, that's an acquittal. Is that fair? this Court's footnote in Scott, that courts are relating to guilt and innocence and rulings designed to serve other purposes. So if you have a devious judge who's determined to package a prosecutorial misconduct ruling as an acquittal, I have no doubt that an appellate court would be able to -- to smoke that out. MR. MORAN: Yes. And -- and I fall back to perfectly capable of distinguishing between rulings Official limitations defense was raised. Would that be -- would something the prosecution has to prove in order to establish guilt. JUSTICE ALITO: Well, to come back to the argument we just heard, so suppose the judge grants a mistrial for failure to prove an action within the statute of limitations, even though no statute of that be an acquittal? MR. MORAN: Only -- I think my answer to that would depend on how you rule in the prior case, depending on whether the statute of limitations is -- is JUSTICE ALITO: All right. Assuming, for the sake of argument, that it's not an element -- it's not really an element, but the judge thinks it's an that could result in an acquittal, if it is -- if the defendant raising the statute of limitations is something that could result in an acquittal -- because I come to Burks, where Burks says an affirmative insanity defense, the prosecution fails to disprove that, that is an acquittal -- when the appellate court concluded that there was failure to disprove the affirmative insanity defense.element. MR. MORAN: Well, if it -- if it's something That shows that that language in Martin Official which include affirmative defenses or --really isn't. Then you said the court of appeals could straighten that out? Linen can't be taken as if it was construing the terms of an easement. You have to look at what was Martin Linen getting at. And Martin Linen is trying to identify those rulings relating to guilt or innocence, JUSTICE KENNEDY: I'm not sure I understand the rationale for your answer to your own hypothetical. The judge characterizes a prosecutorial -- or a misconduct incident as a grounds for acquittal; it MR. MORAN: Yes. That's Scott. JUSTICE KENNEDY: On what rationale -- so what's the general principle that allows the court of MR. MORAN: If the judge has made a ruling going to the defendant's guilt or innocence and finding that, as in Martin, examining the government's evidence and finding that they have failed to prove the if the judge has made a ruling that is designed to serve some other purpose, so if the judge, in my hypothetical, were to say --defendant's guilt, final. There can be no appeal. But appeals to do this sometimes and not others? JUSTICE KENNEDY: Oh, I thought -- I thought it was the judge just subjectively does this, but he demonstrates the problem of -- of the Michigan Supreme doesn't say any -- he just characterizes it as an acquittal? actually, quite a bit like some of the cases, and it Court's line. So example, in Martin Linen, all the judge said is, this is one of the weakest cases I've ever seen. Presumably, if the Respondent were to win, they would be entitled to appeal a determination like that to at least try to convince the appellate court that the reason the case seems so weak to the trial judge was that the trial judge had added an extra element. said -- he granted a demurrer by looking at the prosecution's case and saying that, I find the evidence insufficient. And, in fact, in Smalis, the -- Pennsylvania tried to argue that the judge had actually murder. And -- and so -- you know, they would be entitled to make these arguments. And so then we get into questions of, in granting acquittals, would judges heightened the burden for mens rea for third-degree Same thing in Smalis, where the judge simply Official MR. MORAN: That's -- that's a case, have to explain all of the elements -- Official JUSTICE BREYER: I see the problem, but I am still back to where Justice Kennedy was -- and that is my own failing here. I didn't quite understand. I thought, when you grant a dismissal and you dismiss the case in the middle of the trial because the prosecution was brought too late, all you're doing is, in the middle of the trial, granting something you should have granted in the first place before you impaneled the jury. But I thought that, in Fong Foo, Judge Wyzanski had dismissed the case after empanelment because he wrongly thought that the U.S. attorney had been talking to a witness or a juror or something at lunch time and that he had -- and that's an acquittal. And I thought Justice Harlan, for the Court, wrote again. And I didn't think the Court ever overruled that. That -- what -- in where? explicitly overruled, but I think it has been limited by JUSTICE BREYER: So Scott says that even in judge-wise -- Scott says Fong Foo was wrong, that that -- because the reason that Charlie Wyzanski dismissed it is he has this idea of a -- the AUSA doing something improper at lunch. And -- and that's -- that's -- now, Double Jeopardy, Jeopardy attached, you can't try him MR. MORAN: Fong -- Fong Foo has not been Scott. Official JUSTICE BREYER: Yes. MR. MORAN: But the second one was the total on your theory -- on the theory you just enunciated, there would -- there would -- Double Jeopardy wouldn't protect against the second indictment, right? MR. MORAN: Well, Justice Breyer, Fong Foo actually listed two reasons why the trial judge granted the directed verdict. One was prosecutorial misconduct. The judge apparently thought that the prosecutor had been speaking with a witness. lack of credibility of the prosecution's witnesses. And -- and when the case came -- good for Double Jeopardy purposes, but I would make clear that the prosecutorial misconduct rationale is not. of prosecutorial misconduct on dumping this case mid-trial, yes, the prosecution gets another bite at the apple, assuming that it's done on -- on the defendant's motion. That part -- I think that concurring opinion has been effectively adopted in Scott, so that a finding JUSTICE BREYER: Yes. Yes. That's -- MR. MORAN: When the case came to this Court, the concurring Justice said, the second one is CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: One -- one of the Official there has been a legal error below, they haven't had a MR. MORAN: Mr. Chief Justice, I would judge who is representative of the state, who was relying on the standard jury instructions -- reasons we've said that underlies Double Jeopardy clause is to prevent overbearing conduct by the government. That's not an issue here, is it? You said the government gets one fair shot at conviction. And if fair shot. respectfully disagree. Mr. Evans was hauled into court by the state. He was acquitted, in our view, by the CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, this business about the judge being a representative of the state, I'm not sure how far that gets you. The government is one of the adversaries appearing before the judge, and the judge is not supposed to take the government's side. So he is not really a part of the government. And it does seem to me that, if they had been thrown out of court because of a legal error, that's not a fair shot. MR. MORAN: Well, I understand that view, Mr. Chief Justice, but it's contrary to a lot of this Court's cases. I think this Court would have to review a lot of its cases, most recently, Smith and Smalis and Martin Linen, all of which said that a legal error affects the quality of a judgment -- and Scott also Official JUSTICE KAGAN: Well, I suppose the question --citizen has been brought into court, expects to go specifically said this, a legal error affects the quality of the judgment, but not it's finality for Double Jeopardy purposes. CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: No, I know that -- I'm just saying that that particular rationale for the Double Jeopardy Clause is not applicable in this case. MR. MORAN: Well, I think it is because a through one trial, and they are told, sir, I am finding you not guilty. And then to find out later -- for the state to come back later -- CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: That's looking at it from the defendant's perspective. We have said that the government should have one fair shot at conviction. And it seems to me that, if they lose because of an error, that's not a fair shot. purpose of the Double Jeopardy Clause is, is to protect defendants against continuing government oppression. And that oppression arises from the anxiety of having to go through it again and again.language in Martin Linen, which talks about what the MR. MORAN: Your Honor, I come back to the JUSTICE KAGAN: But isn't it -- isn't it Official because there are lots of these cases in which legal error was made. And so -- in Rumsey, you could say exactly the same thing about Mr. Rumsey. hard to argue with a notion that your client has gotten a windfall here? I mean, this is not continuing government oppression and -- and -- you know, that's -- that -- that suggests a real harm on the part of your client. I mean, here because of a legal error, your client walks away the winner when he shouldn't have. MR. MORAN: Well, Your Honor, without the error, the trial would have -- would have continued. But I think that argument, respectfully, proves too much JUSTICE KAGAN: Yes, I think that's right. This is -- this is an argument against this whole line of cases, that this whole line of cases essentially has set up a system where the real purposes of the Double Jeopardy Clause do not apply and where defendants walk away with windfalls. And I guess what's your best argument against that proposition? equivalency of a judicial acquittal to a jury acquittal, you have to accept that both actors are capable of error. Both actors are human. Juries are incapable -- are capable of making legal errors, as well as factual MR. MORAN: Well, once you accept the errors. They are capable of misunderstanding the Official Had the judge not granted the directed jury the same way, and the jury would have also And so to try and tease out legal and instructions. In fact, they are capable of being misinstructed. verdict here, she presumably would have instructed the acquitted Mr. Evans for the same reason. factual errors, especially when -- and often, there are mixed questions of fact or law that are at stake here --I think, is a losing proposition. I think it -- I think the Court has decided to draw a firm line, recognizing that an acquittal is special. An acquittal is the most fundamental thing that can happen. you have Double Jeopardy looming in -- in -- in the case, then arguments like the one that the defendant made and the judge bought have to be made pretrial, and if they are not made pretrial, they are waived. I mean, here, the -- the -- the case was ongoing when the had built into it a requirement that defendants that are going to make this kind of plea do it pretrial. it would have been right for Mr. Evans to make this defendant made this suggestion, as opposed the system argument pretrial because it was only with the MR. MORAN: Justice Ginsburg, I don't think JUSTICE GINSBURG: Could a system say, if Official prosecution's proof that it became clear that what the prosecution was proving was that the building burned was, in fact, a dwelling house and, therefore, seemed to be excluded by the statutory language and especially the commentary to the jury instructions from the definition of the offense. Michigan is an information state. Michigan does not require an indictment that lists every -- every little bit of the crime and all of the details. All Michigan requires is a very simple statement of the crime and the statutory citation and, of course, who the defendant is and the date and venue of the alleged crime. And so here, Mr. Evans would have had no way of knowing in advance what the prosecution was going to prove. That's why this case is unlike Lee. This is -- Lee is an effective indictment. Nobody claims that Mr. Lee was innocent and that the prosecution couldn't prove the elements of the crime against Mr. Lee. The problem was just that the indictment failed to allege a specific fact. And that -- JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: I'm sorry. I'm a little confused. It was charged with the crime of burning down a dwelling, correct? MR. MORAN: Mr. Evans, no. He was charged Official was cited? JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: The dwelling statute, not the -- not the exception to the dwelling. MR. MORAN: It's the exception to the MR. MORAN: Yes. JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Which one? MR. MORAN: The -- that -- that statute, I JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Of? MR. MORAN: Burning other real property. JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: And no specific statute with burning other real property. have -- dwelling statute. It's -- it's ., which is on page of the top side brief. charged with? dismiss, if he was charged with burning down a house? I thought he was charged with burning down a dwelling, and the argument was he should have been -- down a house. MR. MORAN: No. JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: -- charged with burning JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: That's what he was MR. MORAN: Yes. JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: So why did the court MR. MORAN: No, he was charged with the Official MR. MORAN: It was -- it was allegedly a he burnt down a house -- that someone burnt down a house, correct? crime in . -- ., which reads, in relevant part, that, "a person who willfully or maliciously burns any building or other real property, or the contents thereof, other than those specified in the next proceeding subsection" -- "subsection of this chapter." And the next proceeding section of the chapter is about burning down dwelling houses. JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: My only quibble is you have no doubt -- the defense attorney had no doubt that vacant house. And apparently, that's why the prosecution charged it this way. ones who made the choice of which statute to apply. They, apparently, thought that they couldn't prove that it was a dwelling house, so they proved the other crime. And the thinking -- the thinking of the defense attorney and the thinking of the judge was that these two crimes were complementary to each other; in other words, that they did not overlap. JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Got it. MR. MORAN: So they charged it. They're the It was either a dwelling house or not a dwelling house, and then one statute or the other JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: It's a sentencing enhancement, is really what the argument is -- the decision was. applies. Court of Appeals in this case, which is now not contested, in fact, the burning -- the -- the statute under which Mr. Evans was charged totally encompasses the greater crime because any building is covered in the crime with which Mr. Evans is charged, while only specific buildings, dwelling houses, are charged in the arson -- get the enhancement if they prove it's a house. offense. JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Exactly. MR. MORAN: Yes. But the -- a jury would have to make that determination -- or the judge in a bench trial would have to make that determination beyond a reasonable doubt. If there are no further questions, I will MR. MORAN: Well, there -- JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: That every -- you can be charged with burning down a dwelling and you can only MR. MORAN: You can only get the greater Official As a result of the ruling of the Michigan reserve the balance of my time. Official ORAL ARGUMENT OF TIMOTHY A. BAUGHMAN ON BEHALF OF THE RESPONDENT MR. BAUGHMAN: Mr. Chief Justice, and may it CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, counsel. Mr. Baughman. please the Court: This trial here was ended before verdict from a jury on the motion of the defendant, opposed vigorously by the prosecution, alleging, essentially, has been conceded throughout the appellate history of this case, from the Michigan Court of Appeals on, that there is no such element in -- in the -- in the crime. The statute that Mr. Moran mentioned, that refers to the next preceding section, over three decades ago, was held to be words of limitation; in other words, you don't have to prove it's a dwelling, to prove that other real property -- a building or other real property that the crime charged contained an uncharged element on which insufficient proof had been presented for a rational factfinder to find guilt beyond a reasonable doubt; that uncharged element being that the offense be, for want of a better term, of a -- excuse me -- the structure be, for want of a better term, a non-dwelling. We had -- that had not been alleged. But it has been burned. Official And so the proofs were adequate -- were appropriate here, and the charging document was element that enhances the offense, in order to prove the So in the s, it was held the difference between the two statutes is the greater requires proof of a dwelling or a habitation; the lesser does not. The judge held that you have to prove the negative of the lesser offense; you have to prove it's a non-dwelling. And, again, that's been conceded to be error throughout the entire appellate history here. appropriate here. And the question becomes, on these facts, does termination of the trial by the judge constitute an acquittal, so that jeopardy should bar a second trial? The Jeopardy Clause is aimed at prohibiting certain governmental abuses that occurred historically. One of them is when the government would terminate a trial that was not going well, without the consent of the defendant, in order to take another shot at it -- to build a better case or perhaps get a better factfinder. that kind of conduct by establishing, through this Court's cases, that mistrials without the consent of the defendant bar retrial, that abhorrent practice is barred, unless a manifest necessity is shown. And the Double Jeopardy Clause prohibits Official And we've even extended that to the But if there is consent, as there was in valued right to a decision by this tribunal -- if he does that, then that -- the other side of that coin is, that is ordinarily outcome-determinative the other way. circumstance that, if the judge is intending to help the defendant, if he is doing something that he believes is in defendant's favor, if defendant has not consented, then that valued right to a verdict from the tribunal that he is before trumps everything. this case -- the defendant asked the judge to terminate the trial without going to this jury, so he gave up his government has achieved the first harm by the back door; JUSTICE SCALIA: So if -- if the judge did this on her own, that would have been okay? And there would be Double Jeopardy attaching? each case whether the defendant was the initiating source of the error? not a judgment of acquittal was granted, yes, both the Federal rule and the Michigan rule provide that, on the MR. BAUGHMAN: That's correct. JUSTICE SCALIA: So we have to decide in MR. BAUGHMAN: In terms of the -- whether or A retrial is permissible, unless the that is, by goading the defendant into the mistrial. Official JUSTICE SCALIA: What -- what if the MR. BAUGHMAN: I think that would be enough. defendant's motion or on the court's own motion, the court may grant a directed verdict. defendant just agrees with the judge? The judge says --you know, I think this indictment is bad because you -- you have to show that it wasn't a dwelling place, and the counsel for the Defendant says, yes, that seems like a good -- a good idea. Is -- is that enough to --I think agreement with the judge's course of action would be the judge -- would be, as in the mistrial situation, would be the defendant's -- JUSTICE SCALIA: Well, my goodness, disagreement would be malpractice, wouldn't it? whether you really wish to get a verdict from this jury or whether you risk having a -- risk -- risk wanting to have a retrial before a different factfinder. You may counsel. I -- I -- MR. BAUGHMAN: Sometimes, that bird in the hand can come back and bite you, when you have a second (Laughter.) MR. BAUGHMAN: Well, it -- it depends on be very happy with -- JUSTICE SCALIA: A bird in the hand, trial. Official JUSTICE KAGAN: Mr. Baughman, what would MR. BAUGHMAN: That -- that's correct. And that -- that's the logic of Justice Holmes' position in happen if the defendant asked for improper instructions, really saying exactly something like this -- you know, that the jury has to find this additional element that, in fact, it doesn't have to find? But your theory, I would think, would say that too, the government could try the defendant again. After all, the government didn't get its one fair shot. Kepner, and we don't go that far, essentially because this isn't a jury case. There is a logic to that position, but it is -- there's -- case. logic of your position would extend to improperly extent, but it is -- it is cut off by two facts. One is simply, as -- as Justice Holmes often said, the -- the life -- an ounce of -- I'm -- excuse me -- an ounce of logic is often trumped by a pound of history. We have JUSTICE KAGAN: You don't go that far, in other words, just because it doesn't happen to be this MR. BAUGHMAN: That's correct. JUSTICE KAGAN: But do you concede that the instructed juries? MR. BAUGHMAN: It would, to a certain Official MR. BAUGHMAN: Well, when I say JUSTICE KAGAN: Well, we've historically said it in this context, too. I mean, the cases that historically said that a verdict by the factfinder, by the jury, terminates jeopardy, and there is no inquiry into -- you are asking us to overrule go back years. historically, I mean back to the time of the founding, in terms of when the Double Jeopardy Clause was promulgated and adopted into the Constitution. Fifty years is not back to when we were determining what it is we were protecting against when we adopted the clause. noted, there is very little explanation in Fong Foo as to how the Court came out where it came out, and there has been very little explanation since as to how we got from the common law prohibition of a retrial after acquittal on the merits by a jury, to a ruling of law by reasonable doubt being the same thing, which is where we are today. the judge that no jury could find guilt beyond a And as I think most of the commentators have JUSTICE GINSBURG: You cannot necessarily -- JUSTICE SCALIA: Well, we didn't have it, at the time of the founding, any mechanism for a judge to Official It's not as though this procedure existed at the time of the founding or in English law before then acquittal, does -- does that constitute Double Jeopardy? MR. BAUGHMAN: Well, I think you are exactly do that. I mean, this -- this is a new procedure, and how it fit into the prohibition of Double Jeopardy was certainly a -- an open question. and was never adequate to -- to constitute Double Jeopardy. It's a new procedure introduced, so the question for the Court was, well -- you know, if it's the judge rather than the jury that pronounces the right. It, of course, is a new procedure. It didn't exist at the time of the founding. So our question then becomes is this new procedure sufficiently equivalent to that procedure that is historically protected, that it's -- that the protections that it is designed to guard against are served when we bar retrial in these circumstances? there are many circumstances where what -- what we are doing is giving the defendant a windfall while serving no interest that was protected by the Jeopardy Clause. So if it's to be an analog, then we need to see does it really closely approximate a retrial after acquittal on And I think, as Justice Kagan has indicated, the merits by a jury -- Official and we don't have any mechanism for inquiring, so we treat -- you have to have a line somewhere. Jeopardy terminates with the jury verdict, which may have been misinstructed, but we don't know why they came out the way they did. JUSTICE KAGAN: But the point I was making was that the same windfall is received by the defendant that gets an acquittal from an improperly instructed jury. MR. BAUGHMAN: But -- that is true, except we -- we could speculate that's -- that's true, but we don't know why the jury came back the way it did. The jury may have acquitted for an entirely different reason. We don't know. We don't have special verdicts, you -- you -- you agree that sometimes the prosecution -- I'm not saying anyone would -- but they -- the defendant's acquitted by the jury so --because he doesn't find -- they don't find enough evidence, and so the prosecutor thinks, I think I'd like to try him again, and then he's acquitted again. I'd like to try him again, and he's acquitted again. If they -- JUSTICE BREYER: Now -- now, I take it Now, substitute judge for jury, the same thing could happen. I mean, I don't see why not. And Official problem of the Double Jeopardy Clause. And where I'm driving is that -- that there that's it. That's what we're after. And where it's some procedural thing or not, maybe we aren't. Okay. there's no answer to that, is there? And if there's no answer to that, the same bad thing could happen. Well, then you're going to have to start distinguishing among which judge or jury acquittals do or do not invoke the is a principle, and the principle was -- it seems the simplest way to put it, is where in fact the acquittal rests upon a judgment that there isn't enough evidence, Now, the virtue of that is it's simple, it's consistent with the cases, it's been clear. And you're advocating, let's go into that and change it or at least we're saying there wasn't enough evidence, is because the judge had in mind a legal point that he was wrong about, then Double Jeopardy Clause doesn't work. But if the judge was right, it does work. Well, except for the matter of substantive evidence. Now, that way, as your opponent, lies a mess. I just went through that long thing because I don't want you to get -- sit down without addressing what I see as a central problem, namely, if we don't interpret the cases that's consistent with it. And accept his view, it's going to be a terrible mess. when the judge granted the directed verdict of acquittal, as it's known in Michigan, was not that at all. MR. BAUGHMAN: Well, let me say two things. One is we don't -- we don't have the circumstance that existed at the common law that the Jeopardy Clause was designed to protect against of the executive simply him again, let's try him again, let's try him again. Something has to happen in-between there, and that is that a court has to determine -- neutral and detached arbiters have to determine that what happened The judge actually did something different. And if the court doesn't interpose on the prosecution's harassment and abusive practice of simply starting a new prosecution, we're trying to get what happened in that -- distinctions, I go back to the question I asked, which was there is a distinction. The distinction is whether MR. BAUGHMAN: Yes. JUSTICE BREYER: And once you make those JUSTICE BREYER: Now, you're beginning to make distinctions. request, there will be no retrial. So it's not the Official saying, after an acquittal by the factfinder, let's try it's a procedural ground or -- and Justice Harlan's -- Official The other side of it, where the clause MR. BAUGHMAN: Well, I think -- I think it's whether there was -- "Just talk to the U.S. attorney, I didn't like it," or "Talk to the witness," or "The prosecution brought too late." attaches, is where it was done on a substantive basis, not enough evidence. I said -- I don't want to repeat myself, but I'm saying what he's coming up with is a simple, clear rule, basically consistent with the cases, and why shouldn't we follow it? consistent with the cases, and also clear, is to apply Martin Linen Supply by the very terms that it uses; that is, the resolution that we're talking about the judge making is moored to something. It's moored to the being twice tried for the same offense. How do we define offense in the law? has taken an elements approach. Two -- two offenses element, the other does not. We look to the elements. And to direct a jury trial, this Court has been very active very recently in determining how is it that we determine when somebody has a right to a jury trial on some fact before punishment can be imposed? We look to elements of the crime. We're talking about somebody In other Double Jeopardy cases, this Court are -- are different if one requires proof of an Official elements. And we can identify what those are. We have to identify them in every case. This is not a -- a strange process you have JUSTICE ALITO: If the judge -- if the judge then it is a matter for jury trial and it has to be what are the elements that have to be proven beyond a reasonable doubt. If a fact is necessary to -- to -- in order for punishment to be imposed, if that has to be proven, proven beyond a reasonable doubt. So when this Court said one or more of the factual elements of the offense in Martin Linen Supply, I took it to mean -- and I have always taken it to mean -- one or more of the factual to instruct on them, determine what they are and use those -- very difficult line to draw? line to draw, but all tests can sometimes involve difficult lines to draw. We used to have a no evidence test for whether evidence was sufficient and we -- that simply misinterprets one of the elements, but doesn't add a new element, you say that there would be Double Jeopardy there, right? MR. BAUGHMAN: Yes. JUSTICE ALITO: Isn't that going to be a MR. BAUGHMAN: It can be a very difficult Official And you will find a great many dissents in cases between appellate judges on whether or not this JUSTICE ALITO: Let me give you an example. Suppose the -- a statute makes it a crime to burn down a dwelling, and the judge interprets dwelling to mean a building that is currently lived in and, therefore, not including a vacation home. And let's assume that's an incorrect interpretation. was changed in Jackson v. Virginia, to whether a reasonable juror could find guilt beyond a reasonable doubt. case itself involved sufficient proof for a jury to find guilt beyond a reasonable doubt. The test is not always easily -- easily applicable. And neither was the no evidence test. So there might be some -- Or is that the addition of a new element to the statute, namely, that it is a building in which people -- that's one element, and the other is people are currently would draw the line at any time the court requires the prosecution to prove a fact that, under the law passed by the legislature, the prosecution never has to prove living there? MR. BAUGHMAN: I -- I would define -- I Now, is that an incorrect interpretation? in order to make out the case. Official JUSTICE SCALIA: Well, that's every misinterpretation, you can -- which goes beyond the of an element. The judge didn't here say, you can't prove that this is a building, unless it was a dwelling, you can't prove it was real property unless it was a dwelling. misinterpretation. I mean, I don't know why this case doesn't involve simply a misinterpretation of what the elements of the crime are. I mean, any minimum that the -- that the statute requires, can be recharacterized as adding an additional element. MR. BAUGHMAN: Well, it does involve a -- a mischaracterization of what the elements were, but not prove that it was a non-dwelling in this case. JUSTICE KAGAN: But in several of our cases, what the court has done wrong is to make the prosecution prove additional facts in order to prove an element. So the distinction that you're drawing is one between incorrectly making the prosecution prove additional facts and incorrectly saying that the prosecution has to show an additional element. And I guess I just don't understand that distinction. The judge said, you have -- you can prove those things, and it's not enough, you also have to MR. BAUGHMAN: Well, I would suggest that Official factual elements of the offense. JUSTICE KAGAN: Well, if I understand your I'm looking at them, and they're just not enough for a reasonable juror to find guilt -- this is an opportunity for this Court to draw the line at does -- does the judge require -- has the judge required the prosecution to prove something the statute doesn't require to be proven, it's not one of the Or has the judge -- the error the judge can make under Martin Linen Supply -- has the judge simply misassessed the evidence? The judge has looked at it and said -- you know, I -- I understand all your proofs, test correctly, under your test, Rumsey, Smalis, and Smith would all have come out differently. MR. BAUGHMAN: No, I don't think so. Rumsey is -- is a difficult case, but Rumsey is a verdict case. Rumsey is not a directed verdict case. The judge in Rumsey was the factfinder. Rumsey is your bench trial. It's -- it's -- it's complicated because it was a sentencing case -- a death penalty sentencing case that this Court treats the hearing the same as the trial for Double Jeopardy purposes. more like a misinstructed jury. The judge himself -- But the judge was the factfinder, and it was JUSTICE SCALIA: So you're saying that Official The jury weighs credibility and assesses the The jury is expressing its opinion based on the evidence. And although it can be proven that doing those things -- is supposed to be by the law, in making his decision. His is the ruling of law as gatekeeper, that -- that we won't even reach this decision. your -- your approach doesn't solve the bench trial problem any more than your friend's approach, right? MR. BAUGHMAN: A verdict is a verdict, I agree with Mr. Moran. When the judge on the merits returns a verdict, what the judge does or the jury does in returning a verdict on the merits is very different when what the judge does on a judgment of acquittal. weight of evidence, and the judge is prohibited from they've reached a result contrary to reality, they can't be right or wrong. Legally, their opinion is their opinion of those collective people after doing something the judge isn't allowed to do. So the directed verdict isn't, I don't think, a perfect analog to the jury trial. But the bench trial issue gets very complicated because it is possible to do something with a bench trial that we don't do with jury trials, and that is have specific factfinding as to the elements. Many jurisdictions do. Official conviction. There is, in fact, a case -- the Lynch case that Mr. Moran cited, where, on rehearing en banc, the court split evenly as to whether or not the judge's verdict, where the judge had actually specifically found all of the elements -- the crime is elements A, B, and C, I find them; I don't find element B, so I acquit -- the court split five to five on rehearing en banc and whether or not that judge had really announced two verdicts and it could be reformed -- be reformed to a And Justice Sotomayor was one of the members of the five who would have addressed the question of, is that not different? The form of the language doesn't control. Has not the judge actually entered a guilty off-the-beaten-track kind of a situation. In a jury trial, where a judge simply takes the case from the jury on the motion of the defendant and resolves the fact that the legislature has not said that one needs to be proven, that is not one of the constituent parts of the crime, that is not something that need be proven to impose punishment under the law, then he's done something very different than what the jury has done. That's a very -- you know, kind of verdict in that circumstance? And to reverse that and allow the Official SUPPORTING THE RESPONDENT MR. GANNON: Mr. Chief Justice, and may it We believe the Court can resolve this case Thank you very much. CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, counsel. Mr. Gannon. ORAL ARGUMENT OF CURTIS F. GANNON, FOR UNITED STATES, AS AMICUS CURIAE, prosecution to have one full and fair opportunity, we believe imposes no cruelty or oppression upon the defendant. please the Court: by distinguishing between the misconstruction of an element and the erroneous addition of an element to the particular distinction, it could also resolve the case by allowing the government to appeal in both of those instances. This goes to the question that Justice Kagan was asking near the end of my friend's argument. overruling any of the Court's cases. We think it would require narrowing Smalis and Rumsey to their facts, and -- and -- but Smith would not be a problem in that context.case. But if the Court's unwilling to draw that Rumsey is distinct for the reason that my We don't think that that would require Official it was. Smith is about a completely separate judge had taken the case away, as a matter of law, from friend suggested. It was actually a case involving factfindings by the judge. The Court characterized it as a special verdict made by the sole decisionmaker there. It was not an instance like this, where the the jury because there wouldn't be any sufficient evidence. It has been cited later on in this cases, in particular, in Smalis, as being about something like a sufficiency decision, but on its facts, that's not what question because there is no dispute there about the appropriate construction of the element. The firearms offense there, the element in question was whether the question about whether certain evidence that the firearm in question was a pistol was sufficient to satisfy that burden, but there was no doubt about what the -- what the element was. It was inches or less. And so it context, but if you look at what actually happened in Smalis and what was at issue in the demurrer there, the decision that the Court was reviewing was one that was principally about whether there was sufficient evidence barrel length was less than inches. There was a wasn't about misconstruing the element. Smalis is probably the hardest case in this Official And it was a different element. This was JUSTICE BREYER: Let's go through this. My whether to set it aside. So there's no problem. So now, we have the judge -- for some reason or other, this judge has decided to grant the motion of acquittal in the middle of the case. of causation, which was an undisputed element of each of the counts at issue there, and only in footnote of the Court's opinion did it address potential misconstruction of the element. what my -- my friend Mr. Moran mentioned -- basic question: Normally, a judge will wait till the jury comes in and then decide, if the jury convicts him, down his reasons. So he might just say there isn't enough evidence. And now, it happens that, just before he did that, the defense lawyer argued to him an erroneous theory. All right. An added element or something or other, some kind of misconstruction of this. What happens then? normally expect judges to give reasons for their decisions. Now, this is unusual, I think -- I hope. And if so, though, the judge might not think of writing MR. GANNON: Well, I think that we -- we JUSTICE BREYER: Yes. But this a judge, Official JUSTICE BREYER: Oh, I see. So there are a MS. GANNON: So -- and actually, in the vast majority of states -- JUSTICE BREYER: They do. They -- MR. GANNON: -- that's the rule. The MR. GANNON: Well, in the -- in the State of Michigan, the rule does not permit the judge to reserve after all, who for some reason -- we don't know what -- decided, instead of waiting, as they normally would do, grant it in the middle of the case. the ruling on this motion. lot more places -- Federal rule was only changed in , to allow this type of -- after trial. than -- than I think. context -- have to write it down? All right. Fine. Thank you. MS. GANNON: And in fact, in the Federal JUSTICE BREYER: And then this is a -- MS. GANNON: -- decision to be reserved JUSTICE BREYER: This has arisen a lot more JUSTICE BREYER: And in that case, do they MR. GANNON: Well, I -- I think that the Official support a guilty -- JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: But many states have a the judge to reserve it till after the jury verdict. MR. GANNON: Many -- many states -- JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: And many states permit rule in Michigan, and in the Federal Rule , does require the judge to make a determination of -- to satisfy that -- that there's an acquittal, which would mean that there is no -- no sufficient evidence to -- to different rule. MR. GANNON: My -- my understanding is that most states do not permit that. The Federal government only started permitting that in , and even the last time the Justice Department studied this, about ten rule amendment in the Federal rules, which came with advisory committee notes, strongly encouraging judges to reserve these sorts of decisions precisely to preserve the public's interest. So notwithstanding -- Notwithstanding that, what? years ago, it concluded that, notwithstanding the MR. GANNON: Notwithstanding that, in approximately percent of the cases in which there are JUSTICE BREYER: So then, in other words, when an acquittal -- JUSTICE SCALIA: Finish the sentence. Official Rule verdicts, they are done mid-trial, even in the Federal system, at least in the early s, is the only data collection that I'm aware of. And so this -- this still is a problem. I think that if -- if it looks like the decision is based on classic insufficiency of the evidence and there is no argument about whether it was -- it's based on a misconstruction or an erroneous addition of the elements, then we -- we would have to be -- we would lose, unless the Court's willing to overturn the broader line of cases in Martin Linens, Sanabria, Scott, and the other cases that were -- JUSTICE BREYER: Can you add to that -- your -- just your idea of what the empirical situation is in the last or years? Have most U.S. prosecutors or prosecutors in these states thought that they could appeal an acquittal on the -- in the middle of the trial on the ground that the judge made a mistake of law? certainly has maintained that that -- that that is appropriate. In -- we think that in the Maker decision in the Third Circuit in recognized this. Mr. Moran asks the Court to conclude that any decision We do think that there is -- my -- my friend MR. GANNON: I don't think that they -- they have mostly thought that, but the Federal government Official And I think that -- that while, at some formal level, that -- that that might be theoretically like this, that is predicated upon a supposed erroneous addition of an element, could easily be recharacterized as a misconstruction of another element. true, in an egregious case like this, there is a distinction, which is that if -- if this were an element of the offense that needed to be charged in the indictment -- at least in the Federal system, then the failure to have alleged that the structure here was a non-dwelling would have made the indictment invalid. And the Defendant would have been able to make exactly the same legal argument he made to the judge here, which is to say that the prosecution has necessary elements of the offense, which is that this structure is not a dwelling. We know that that particular -- only. And I -- I think this characterization, nonexistent element -- or a court's misconstruction of an element, I think, in many cases, you could do -- call it one or call it the other, so that -- that's a failed to prove -- has failed even to allege one of the we adopt your rule, it -- it can't be for this case JUSTICE GINSBURG: Mr. Gannon, if we -- if difficult line to -- to adopt. Official MR. GANNON: Well, I don't think it's Smalis, and Smith, even the Petitioner doesn't difficult, in the sense that most -- most of the cases that we are talking about don't involve this type of error. The cases that this Court has decided, Rumsey, characterize this case as involving additional elements. And this Court has recognized, in Lee, that when the error is one that kept the indictment from being valid because it failed to charge a relevant earlier the statistics of how many judges grant Rule motions in trial. I think you said percent. What's the gross number, relative to the number of actual verdict decisions by juries or the judge himself? MR. GANNON: The only data that I have seen about this is data that the Justice Department collected about ten years ago. It was from the early s. And -- and the conclusion there was that there were element and the judge did not rule on that until after jeopardy attached, the government was still entitled to appeal that decision, and if it were erroneous -- the government's only going to get a chance at retrial if the judge's decision was legally erroneous, then, therefore, it demonstrates that there was no so-called acquittal on the -- on the offense charged -- JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Counsel, you gave us Official JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Out of what number? MS. GANNON: -- which actually is a larger kind, the non-existent element error, which -- which the government had also pointed out in its amicus brief in Smalis, we think is the most egregious kind of error. It's one that demonstrates that the court is engaging in -- it's usurping the province of the legislature in redefining the scope of the offense. approximately pretrial Rule dismissals per year -- number than you -- than you might at first think, because that represents about ten percent of the number of cases that were actually resolved by jury verdicts. And so it -- it is not uncommon. I mean, this particular type of error that we have in this case, we think, is the most egregious Jeopardy Clause itself, which talks about whether there's been -- somebody's been subject to being twice in jeopardy for the same offense -- then it -- it And when the judge has redefined the -- the crime so extensively that the indictment literally would have been invalid and could have been dismissed as not adequately alleging the elements of the offense, and we know that that is something that the government would And we think, under the terms of the Double matters what the offense was. Official We also know that the government would be have been able to appeal. able to appeal if the judge had reserved decision until after the jury had returned a jury -- a guilty verdict. We acknowledge, as the state does, that jury verdicts are different. If a jury is misinstructed and a jury returns an acquittal, that we are not quarrelling with that in any way. We don't think there's any purchase in the Court's case law to do that. And I think one of the reasons is because the jury verdict might be attributable, not just to mistake or error, but also to lenity or compromise. There -- there are lots of reasons why we don't exactly know why a jury did what it did, and why it different from what we have here. We have here an instance where the court, as a matter of law, at the defendant's behest, took the case away from the jury. We think the fact that the defendants chose -- important by analogy to the Court's mistrial cases in the Double Jeopardy Clause context.juries generally enter general verdicts. And that makes JUSTICE SCALIA: So you -- you're arguing JUSTICE SCALIA: Is that important, "at defendant's behest"? MR. GANNON: We do think that that's Official MR. GANNON: Or if the defendant consents to Jeopardy context. ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONER MR. MORAN: Thank you, Mr. Chief Justice. Responding to Mr. Gannon's argument first, I CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, counsel. Mr. Moran, you have five minutes. REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF DAVID A. MORAN that this should only -- only be -- this rule should only be applied when the defendant asks for it? it, as is the case in the mistrial cases in the Double do characterize Rumsey as an additional element case. And I also characterize it as a misconstrued element case. It's a perfect example of how these cases can be that an additional element to the aggravating circumstance, or you can call it as a misconstruction of what pecuniary gain means in the first place. construed as a misconstruction of the element that the property burned has to be a building, and the judge says, looking at the statute, I construe that to mean a particular type of building. Or it can be, as the prosecution construed it, as the addition of an element. construed either way. The judge required a contract. You can call The same here, the error here can be Official Is there a problem here that justifies going Turning to the -- the broader question about There is no difference between the two characterizations. this whole line of cases and should this Court go back and revisit this whole line of cases, is there really a problem here? We have no amicus briefs from any states indicating that there's a problem. We have only the amicus from the United States saying that there's a problem. back and revisiting years -- or possibly years, all the way back to Kepner -- all of this case law? We submit not, especially since, as this Court noted just six years ago in Smith, there is an easy solution if going wild and granting directed verdicts mid-trial for no apparent reason, all that has to be done is the states can fall into that, as we can say, judges can't do that, or judges as an intermediate -- states as an intermediate step could at least give judges the power to reserve that decision -- JUSTICE KENNEDY: Have any states done that? I -- I'm somewhat concerned about telling a judge that, if the judge's best judgment says there's insufficient there really is a problem. If there really is a problem with judges Official MR. MORAN: I would be, too, through a trial that is going nowhere. And so there are good reasons why states I'm not aware of any state, since this evidence, that then it has to proceed with a trial. Justice Kennedy. I think it would be a mistake. decision -- since this Court's decision in Smith -- that have followed Nevada's lead. There are good reasons to give judges this acquittal power, namely, preserve the state's resources, preserve the jury's time, and present -- and prevent the defendant from having to go don't do this. States have apparently made the decision, even after being alerted in Smith, that there's something they can do about it, that the good of giving judges this mid-trial directed verdict acquittal power outweighs the bad. Finally, I'd just like to respond to Mr. Baughman's point, and it was also raised by Mr. Gannon, about how jury verdicts are different. don't always know why they granted the verdict. But we have the same problem with judicial directed verdicts. And we have Martin Linen, where the judge just says, this is the weakest case I -- I have ever seen. We have Smalis, where he just says, it's There's something special about jury verdicts because we Official If the Court adopts the line that the If there are no further questions? CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, counsel. MR. MORAN: Thank you, Mr. Chief Justice. CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: The case is legally insufficient. prosecution and -- and the Solicitor General would have you adopt, you're going to have to require judges to give very specific findings as to what the elements of the offense are and which ones that they -- they don't find. And that, itself, would require a radical reworking of this Court's jurisprudence. submitted. (Whereupon, at : p.m., the case in the above-entitled matter was submitted.) OfficialOfficial apple : applicable : : applied : applies : apply : Assistant :assume :assuming ::attached :: :attaches :,: : applying : approach : attaching :attempt :::, : attempted :attorney :: :, :approximate : attributableapproximately :allege : : alleged : : : allegedly : alleging : : allow : : : allows : amendment : amicus : : : : :, analog : : allowed : allowing :, appropriate :, :A abhorrent : able : : :, abolish : above-entitled : : abuses : abusive : accept : : : : achieved : acknowledge : acquit : : acquits : acquittal : : : : :, : : :, : :, :, : : : :, : : : : : :, : : :, : : :, : : : :, acquittals : :, : : : acquitted : : :, :, acquitting : action : : active : actors :, actual : add : : added : : adding : addition : : : : : additional : :,,, : :, address : addressed : addressing adequate : : : adequately : adheres : administer : : adopt :, : adopted : :, adopts : advance : adversaries : adversary : advisory : advocating : affirmative :, : agree : : agreement : agrees : aimed : alerted : ALITO : : :, : :, :, : : : arbiter : arbiters : Arbor : argue :analogy : angels : Ann : announced : arguing : :answer :, argued :::anxiety : apparent : apparently : :, : : : : argument ::,,, :: : :,: :,:,,: :: ::, :: :,appeal : arguments: :arisen :arises :arson :aside :,: :: :, : : APPEARAN... : :appearing : asked : :appellate : : : : : : : : asks : :assesses :asking ::AUSA :aware :,: :a.m : :BB :,back : :: :: :,: ::,, :: :,:bad : :: :balance :banc :,bar :,:barred :barrel :based :: :,basic :basically :basis :Baughman :: :,,:, ::, : : aggravating : : : : aggrieved : : :, ago : : appealed : appeals : : : Official : : : : :, : :, :,, : : : :, : :, buildings : : :, : : Baughman's built : burden : : : Burks :, beginning : burn : burned : behalf :, :,, : : : burning : : : :,,, : : :, behest :, believe : :, believes : bench : : burns : burnt :, :, :, business : :,, : : :, : C : : : call :,Cbest : : better :, :, beyond : : : :, :, : bird :, bit : : bite : : bought : Breyer :, :,, : :, :, : :,,, : : brief : : : briefs : : broader : : brought : : : build : building : :,called :capable ::,,:case :, : :, : :, : :, :, : :,: :,:,,: :,: :: ::, : : ::, : : :,:,,:,,:,,:,,: :,:, : : :, :,, : : :, cases : : : :, :,, : : :, : :, : : : : : :, : :, : : :, :, causation : central : certain : : : certainly : : chance : change : changed : : chapter :, characterizati... characterizati... : : characterize : :, characterized Chief :, coming : : :, : :, :, :, :, : :, choice : chooses : chose : circuit : : : circumstance : : : : circumstances :, citation : cited : : : commentary : : commentators : committee : common : complementary : : completely : : : complicated : : compromise : concede : conceded : citizen : claimed : claims : concerned : clarified : classic : conclude : clause : : concluded : : : : :, : :, conclusion :, : :, : : : : concurring:,: conduct : clear : : : : : :, : : characterizes clearly : clever : client :,, charge : : closely : charged : coin : : : :, : collected : :,,, collection : collective : :, : come : : :,, :, : : : : : : : charging : Charlie : confused : consent : : : consented : consents : consequences: consider : consistent : :, : : consists : constituent : comes : constitute : Official :, Constitution construction : : construe : construed : :, construing : contained : contents : contested : context : : : : : : continued : continuing : : contract : contrary : : control : convict : : conviction : : : convictions : convicts : convince : correct :, : : : : : :, correctly : counsel :,, : : : : : : : : Counselor : counts : couple : course :, : : : : : currently : D :dance :data : : : : cut : D:, : :,, :, : : : CURTIS : : : : : : :, : :, : :, : : : : : :, : : : :, :, : : : :, :, :, : : : :, : : :, : de :death :decades :decide :: :date :DAVID : : decided :: : : :: ::courts : : court's : : : : : : :, : : : :, : : covered : credence : credibility : : crime :, :,,, : :, :, : : : : : :, : crimes : criminal : critical : cruelty : curiae : : decision :: :,:, : :,,:, : : :,:decisionmaker:decisions :: :deeper :defendant ::,, : :, : : ::, : : :,:,,,,:, :, : :: :: :,:defendantscourt :, : : determining : : : : : : defendant's Detroit : devious : : : :, : difference : : : :, : :, different : : defense : :,, :, : defenses : define : : definition : delay : : : demonstrates : : : demurrer : : : Department : : : depend : depending : depends : : designed : : : : : : : : : :, : : :,: differently: difficult : :, : : : direct : directed : : : : : : : : :,disagree : disagreement: : dismiss : : : dismissal :,: dismissals : dismissed : : : dismisses : disprove : detached : details : determination :,,, : :, : :, : dispute : dissent : :,, : :, dissents : distinct : : distinction : determine : :, : : determined : determines : :, : : : : distinctions :, Official Evans : : extensively : : : : :, extent : extra : :, : evenly : evidence : : : : :, : : :, : : :, :,, : : : : exactly : : : : : : : : : examining : example : : : : : examples : : : exception : : excluded : excuse : : executive : exist : existed : : existing : expect : expects : explain : explanation :, explicitly : : expressing : extend : extended : FF : fact : : : : :, :, : : : : :: :,: :factfinder :: :: : :, factfinding:factfindings:facts : : : :,: : factual : : :,:failed : : : :,: failing : fails : failure : :, : fair : :, : :,: :fall : : far : : : favor :Federal : :, : :, : : :Fifty :E : :, : : early : : ended : encourage : encouraging : engaging : English : enhancement :, enhances : ensure :, distinguish : : : : distinguishing earlier : : : : : easily :, easy : : document : easement : doing :, : : :, door : double : : : : : : : : : :, : :,, : : : : : :,, :, : : : : : : :, effective : effectively : enter : effort : egregious : entered : entire : entirely : entitled : : : erroneous : equivalent : :, : enunciated : equivalency either : : : element : : :, : :,, :,, : :, : : : : : :, :,,, erroneously : : :, :,,, error : : :, : :,,, :,,,, : :, :, : : : : : :,,, :, :, : : : : : : : : :, elements : : :, : :, :, : : : : :, : : : : : empanelment : empirical : en :, encompasses errors :, : especially : : : ESQ :,, :,,, essentially : : : : : establish : establishing : doubt : :, : : : :, :, : draw : :,, : : : drawing : drew : driving : dumping : dwelling :, : :, :,,, :,,, :, : : : :, : : : D.C :, E Official guess : : : : hole : guilt : : Holmes : : :, identify :: home : Honor : : : : : : hope : hours : : house : :, : :,,,: : houses : : human : hypothetical : :,I:idea : : :,immediate :impaneled :important ::impose :imposed ::imposes :impossible::improper :improperly: :incapable :inches :,incident :include :including :incorrect ::,incorrectly:,final :, :, :,, : : : finality : Finally : find : : : : :, : :, : :, : :, : finding :, : : findings : Fine : Finish : firearm : firearms : firm : first : : : : :, fit : five :,, : focus : follow : : followed : Fong :,, : : : Foo :,, : : footnote : : forget : form : formal : : found : founding : : :, friend : : : friend's : : full : fundamental further : : : GG :gain :Gannon :: :,,: :,:,,,:,,: ::, : : : : Gannon's : gatekeeper : general : : : : generally : getting : Ginsburg :, :, : : give : : : : : : : : : given :, giving : : gloss : go :, : :, : : : : : : : : goading : goes :, : : going : : : : : : : :, : : :, : : good : : : :, : goodness : gotten : government :, : :, : :,,, :, : : : :, : : : : :, : governmental: government's: : : grant : : : : : : : granted : : : : : : : granting : : : grants : : : : : great : greater :,: gross : ground : : grounds : guarantee : guard : : : :,, : : :, : guilty : : : : : : : guy's : Hhabitation :hand :,happen ::, : : :happened ::, : happens : happy : harassment : hard : hardest : Harlan : Harlan's : harm : : hauled : head : hear : heard : hearing : heightened held : : : :, help : : helping :, higher : : historically : :,, : history : indicated : indicating : indictment : :,, : :, : : information : initiating : innocence : : : :, innocent : inquiring : inquiry : insanity : instance : : : instances : instruct : instructed : : : instructions : : : : : : : insufficiency : : insufficient : : : : : intending : intent : interest : : interjected : intermediate :, interpose : interpret : interpretation :, interprets : introduced : invalid : : investing : invitation : invoke : invoking : involve : :, : involved : involving : : in-between : issue : : : : : JJackson :jeopardy ::, : : : :,: :: :,:, : :,,: ::,,: :,:,,, : :, : : : : : :, : : : :,, : :,, :, : :, :, : :,, :, : :,,,, : :, :, : : :, : :, :,,, : :, :,, judge :,, Official : :, :,,, :, : : :, :,, : :, : : : : :, : :, : :, : :, :,,,,, :,, :,,,, :,,, :, :, :,, : :, : : :, : : :, : : judges : : : : : : : : : : : :,,, :, : judge's : :, : : : : judge-wise : judgment : : : : : : : : judicial : : juries : : : : jurisdictions : :,,,, :, : : :, : :, :, : :, : :,,, :,, : :, :,, :, : :, : : : :,,:, : :,,,:,,,: : : :,: :,:, : : :,: justifies : KKagan :,: :,: :: :: ::keep : : Kennedy :,:,, : :,,: ::Kennedy's :Kepner ::kept :kind :: :,: :,know :,: :jurisprudence juror : : : : jury :, : :,, :,, : : :, :, : : : : : :, : : : : : :, : :, : : :,, :,, : :, : : : :, :,, :,, : :, : : :,,,,,:, : : jury's : Justice : : :, :, : :,,,:,,,,,: :,,:,,,,:,,,:,,:,,:, : :, : :, : :,,:,,,: :,: :,:, : :, : Official lenity : lesser : : losing : means : lot :, : meant : : : : : :,, : : : : : : :, : knowing : known : L label : labeling : : labels : lack : LAMAR : language : : : : larger : late : : Laughter : law : : : :, : : : : :, : : : :, : lawyer : lead : learned : led : Lee :,, : : legal : :, : : :,, : : : legally : : : : : legislature : : : length : : let's : : :,, : : level : lies : life : limitation : limitations : :,,, limited : line : : : : :, : : :, : : : : :, : Linen : :, : :, : : : : : : : Linens : lines : listed : lists : literally : little :, :, lived : living : logic :, :, long : : look : : : : looked : looking : : : : looks : looming : lose : : : lots : : lunch :, Lydon : :, Lynch : : : Mmagistrate :maintained:majority :Maker ::making :: :: :: :maliciously :malpractice:mandate :manifest :Martin ::, : :,, : : :: :: ::Massachusetts:matter : : : :: :: :matters :mean : : :, : :, : : :,: :,: ::mechanism : : : : members : mens : mentioned : : merits : : :, mess :, Michigan :, : misinstructed : : : : misinterpreta... :,, misinterprets : mistake : : : mistrial : : : : : : : :, mistrials : : : :,, : misunderstan... : : : : : mixed : moored : : middle : : mind : minimum : minutes : misassessed :, : Moran : : : :,,,: : midway : :,, : mid-trial : :, :, :, : :,, : : : :,,:, :, : : :, : : :, : :, : : : :, : : : : :,: :,:, : : : : :,,:,,,:, : :, : : : : : :,: : : misconstruction : :, : :, :, misconduct : : :,, mischaracteri... misconstrued misconstrue : : : : misconstruing motion : : : Official November : novo : number : : ounce :, outcome-dete... perspective : : : pretrial : Petitioner : : :, : : : :, : :,, : : :,, outweighs : overbearing : : : overruling : : : overlap : overrule : phantom : pin : pistol : OO : : occurred : offense :, overruled : place : : :,, : : : :, :, : : : :, : :,,, P : : point : : : : offenses : : off-the-beaten... part : : pointed : : position : Oh : : okay : places : plea : please : : package : page : : : : : : particular : overturn : :, : Pprevent : : principally: principle : : :, prior : probably : problem : : : : : : :,: : : : :,,,,: : procedural: : procedure : : :,,:,,proceed : proceeding : proceedings: : process : : :, : : : motions : multiple : Municipal : murder : N N :, : narrowing : near : necessarily : necessary : : necessity : need : : needed : needs : negate : negative : neither : neutral : Nevada : : : : : : : : once :,,, :, : : parts : ones : : party : ongoing : Nevada's : never : : open : new : :, :, : : : opinion : :,, : passed : pecuniary : penalty : Pennsylvania : : possibility : possible : : possibly : potential : pound : power : : : : : : : :, practice : : opponent : people :, opportunity : : : percent : : : perfect : precedents : prohibited : preceding : prohibiting: : : prohibition: : perfectly : prohibits : permissible : predicated : prompt : : precisely : preclude : precluded : preliminary : nonexistent : non-dwelling : : : : non-existent : normally : : : noted : : : : notes : notion : : notwithstandi... opposed : : opposing : oppression :, : : : : : :, : : : oral : :,, permit : : : promulgatedorder : : permitting : : persist : :,,, ordinarily : person : present : presented : pronouncespreserve : : : :, presumably proof : : : : : : purposes : purchase : purpose :, reality : really : : : : : : : : :, : : : : : : : : raised : : raising : rational : rationale : : : : rea : reach : reached : reads : real :, :, : :, : reason : : : : : : : : reasonable : : : :, :,, : reasons : : :, :, : : REBUTTAL : : : : relative : relevant : : relying : render : renders : : repeat : representative :, represents : request : : require : : :, :, : :, required : requirement : : requires : : : : : reserve : : : :, : reserved : : proved : proofs : : proven :,, property :, : :, : : : : :, proves : provide : proposition : : : prosecution : province : punishment : : : proving : : :, : :, public's : : : :,, : : : : : :, :,, : : : : : prosecution's :, : : : : : put : : puts : prosecutor : p.m : Q: prosecutorial : : :,, prosecutors :, protect : : : protected : : protecting : protections : prove : :, : : : :, : : :, :,, : : :, :,,, : : : quality ::quarrelling :question :,: :: ::,,: :: :,:, : :questions :,: :: :quibble :quite : : :RR :radical :Official :, :, : : : redefining : refers : reformed :, Responding rehearing :, related : relating : rests : result :, : : : retrial : : : : :, : : retry : returned : returning : returns : reversal : : : reverse : reversible : review : : reviewing : revisit : revisiting : reworking : re-prosecution: right : : : : : :,: : : : :, : : : : :, : : : :,rule : : : : :,,:,,,: ::, : received : recharacterized resolve :, : risk :,,resolution : ROBERTS : : : recognized : : recognizing : reconsider : reconsideration : resolved : resolves : resources : respect : : respectfully : : respond : redefined : Respondent run : : : :, sole : : rules : ruling :,, : : : : : :, : : : : rulings :, : : : second : :,, : : section : : see : : : : : : seen : : Rumsey : : : :, semantics : :,,, sense : :, : : sentence : sentencing S S : : sake : Sanabria : : satisfy : : separate : serve : : : served : serving : set : :, : : : : sets : saw : saying : : short : : : : : : : : : : : shot :,, show : : shown : shows : says : : :, : side : : :, : : : : : simple : : :, : : Scalia : :, simplest : :,, : simply :, : :, : : : : :, : : : : : : :, : scope : sinking : Scott : : sir : :, : sit : : :, sits : : : situation : Official specific : : : : : specifically : specified : : : strongly : structure : : :, studied : sua : subject : subjectively : : subsection : submit : submitted : speculate : split :, sponte : stake : stand : standard : start : started : starting : state : :, substitute : sufficiency : sufficient : substance : substantive : : :, : : : : six : Smalis :, : :, : : : :, : : : : Smith : : : : : : : : :, smoke : solemn : Solicitor : : solution : solve : somebody : somebody's : : someone's : somewhat : :, : sorry : : : :, :, :, :, : :, :, : :,, : : : : : statement : states :,, : :, : : :,,, : :, :,, :, : :,: : sufficiently: suggest : suggested : suggestion: suggests : Supply : : : support : supported : : supporting : : : sorts : Sotomayor : : : :, :,, :, state's : : statistics : :, : statute :, :, : : :,, :,,, :, : :, : :, : : suppose : :,,, :,,, :, : : :, supposed : : : : : : : Supreme :,: : statutes : statutory : : : : : sure : : step : suspended : straighten : system : : strange : : : source : so-called : speaking : special : : : : Official : :, : : systems : T T :, take : : : taken : : : : takes : talk :, talking : : : :, : talks : : tease : telling : ten : : term :, terminate : : : terminates : termination : : terms : : : : : terrible : test : :, :, tests : Thank : : : : :, : : theoretically : theory : : : :, : : thereof : thing :, : : : : : :, : things : : : think : : : : : : : :, : : : :, : :,, :,, : : :, : :, : : :, : :, : : :, :, : :, : : :, :, : :,, : thinking : :, thinks : : : : Third : third-degree : thought : :, : :,, : : : :, : : : today : told : top : total : totally : transcends : treat : treated : treats : trial : :, : :,, :, :, :, :, :, : : :, : : : : : :, : : : :, : :,:,,,: : : : :,trials : : : tribunal :,tried : : true :, : trumped : trumps : try :, : : : : :, : :, trying : three : thrown : till : : time : : Tuesday : Turning : twice : :, : : : : : : : times : TIMOTHY two : : : : : : :, : : type : : : : Uunanswerable:unbroken :uncharged:,uncommon :underlies :understand :: :: :,understanding::, : : : :, : :,,,:, : : : :, : : verdicts : : : : : : : : : :,,vest : view :,,:, : vigorously : Virginia : virtue : Wundisputed :unfairly :unfairness : United :,, waiting :: : : waived :wait : : want : : unusual : walk :unwilling : walks :urged : urging : use : : uses : usurping : Washington :U.S : : : ::wanting ::: Vv : : : :vacant :vacation :valid : : valued :,vast :venue :verdict :,: :,:, : : : : wasn't :: :: :way : : : :: ::, : : :: :ways :weak :weakest ::weighs :weight : went : We'll : we're : : : : :, we've : : : wild : willfully : willfulness : willing : Wilson : win : windfall : : : windfalls : winner : wish : withdraw : witness : : : witnesses : words : : : : :, : : work :, wouldn't : : : write : writing : wrong : : : :, : : : : wrongly : wrote : Wyzanski : : X x :, Y year : years :, : : Official : :, : : - : : : : : : : : :, s : : : :, : s : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : . : . : : : 