Official        IN THE SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES        ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ x                                  SAMUEL OCASIO,                      :             Petitioner                : No. ­         v.                          UNITED STATES OF AMERICA.             : : ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ x                                                         Washington, D.C.                         Tuesday, October ,                  The above­entitled matter came on for oral       argument before the Supreme Court of the United States         at : a.m.   APPEARANCES: ETHAN P. DAVIS, ESQ., San Francisco, Cal.; on behalf            of Petitioner.  ALLON KEDEM, ESQ., Assistant to the Solicitor General,           Department of Justice, Washington, D.C.; on behalf of           Respondent. Alderson Reporting Company Official                                    C O N T E N T S ORAL ARGUMENT OF                                     ETHAN P. DAVIS, ESQ.     PAGE    On behalf of the Petitioner                           ORAL ARGUMENT OF   ALLON KEDEM, ESQ.      On behalf of the Respondent                            REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF   ETHAN P. DAVIS, ESQ.       On behalf of the Petitioner                            Alderson Reporting Company Official                                       P R O C E E D I N G S                                            (: a.m.)              CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: We'll hear argument       first this morning in Case ­, Ocasio v.        United States.              Mr. Davis.              ORAL ARGUMENT OF ETHAN P. DAVIS                    ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONER                 MR. DAVIS: Mr. Chief Justice, and may it         please the Court:               The Hobbs Act requires that a defendant        obtain property from another. In this case, Mr. Ocasio          was charged with conspiring with the owners of a repair           shop not to obtain property from another, but from the          owners themselves.              The plain language of the Hobbs Act resolves        this case. When two people agree that one will pay the            other a bribe, they have merely agreed to exchange          property between themselves, not to obtain property from        another. The historical background, the statutory       structure, and basic criminal ­­ principles of criminal        law all point in the same direction. There are no old            English or State cases involving conspiracies to extort        property from a co­conspirator.                 JUSTICE GINSBURG: Does that mean that you        Alderson Reporting Company Official would have to ­­ in order to get at this ­­ this            venture, you would have to bring two separate        prosecutions, one against your client for the extortion,        and then a separate crime ­­ a separate prosecution in            State court against the body shop owners?                   MR. DAVIS: Yes, Justice Ginsburg, I think         that is correct. Maryland has a bribery statute that           might apply in a situation like this. And Congress has            passed a bribery statute targeted to bribery of State          and local officials, U.S.C. , that may or may not           apply to the repair shop owners. But we don't think           they could be convicted of ­­                 JUSTICE SCALIA: Is it ­­ is it well         established, or even not well established, that you are         obtaining property under color of law when you give         somebody a bribe?                            MR. DAVIS: Your Honor ­­     JUSTICE SCALIA: It seems to me ­­ what that          means to me under color of law is you ­­ you pretend to             have a legal right to it, which in fact you don't have.                         MR. DAVIS: Justice Scalia, until , I        think that was an open question, but this Court decided          in Evans v. United States in ' that Hobbs Act          extortion encompasses the paying of ­­ of bribes.                    JUSTICE SCALIA: I dissented, I assume.         Alderson Reporting Company Official             (Laughter.)             MR. DAVIS: You did. But, Your Honor, I          think that that ­­ the decision in Evans was really the           high­water mark of this Court's Hobbs Act jurisprudence.        And since then the Court has been careful not to expand           the Hobbs Act ­­               JUSTICE KENNEDY: Well, we have stated that        a person may be liable for conspiracy even though he was           incapable of committing the substantive offense. Does        that carry the day for the government's argument here,         or is that distinguishable at principle?                  MR. DAVIS: I think that's distinguishable        in principle, Justice Kennedy.                            JUSTICE KENNEDY: And why?     MR. DAVIS: Well, certainly not every       conspirator must personally commit every element of the        substantive offense.              JUSTICE KENNEDY: But he might not even be         capable of it, must not even be capable of it, as I            understand what we've said.                MR. DAVIS: That's correct, Your Honor.       Must ­­ need not even be capable of committing every          element of the substantive offense, but each conspirator        must specifically intend that someone commit every       element of the substantive offense. And ­­       Alderson Reporting Company Official             JUSTICE KAGAN: Well, why isn't that test        satisfied here, because the shop owners agreed that        Mr. Ocasio would commit every element of the substantive         offense?             MR. DAVIS: The shop owners, Your Honor,        agree that Mr. Ocasio would obtain property from        another, not from themselves. So I think that ­­                      JUSTICE KAGAN: Well, the ­­ the ­­       Mr. Ocasio is committing every element of the        substantive offense. He is obtaining property from        another; that is, he's obtaining property from the body         shop owners. And the body shop owners agreed that he           would do so.               So it seems to me that in the normal way          that conspiracy law works, there is a conspiracy here.                      MR. DAVIS: Justice Kagan, I don't think         that's quite right. I think that there must be a unity              of purpose in conspiracy law. And the ­­ Mr. Ocasio may            have agreed to obtain property from another, but the         body shop owners agreed to obtain property from        themselves; so there's no unity of purpose.                   JUSTICE KAGAN: They only need to agree that         he should obtain property from another, and that is         exactly what they agreed to.                 MR. DAVIS: Justice Kagan, I think the best          Alderson Reporting Company Official way to approach your question is through imagining how         this would happen in ordinary English. The government         has a John and Susan ­­ has its response to our John and              Susan hypothetical in its brief. It says, John would go           to Susan and say, let us agree that I will obtain            property from another, namely, you. And you notice how          much work the words "namely you" are doing in the          government's hypothetical. They're redefining the word       "another" to mean the opposite of its ordinary meaning,         not ­­             JUSTICE ALITO: Is that any stranger than        the Mann Act situation, where the woman who is being          transported across State lines for immoral purposes,       conspires with the person who is transporting her across         State lines? That's permissible, isn't it?                   MR. DAVIS: Justice Alito, I think yes, it          is. And two distinctions from the Mann Act cases: The            first is that the Mann Act used the phrase "any woman,"           not "another woman." I think that case would have been            different if it had used the phrase "another woman."                     JUSTICE ALITO: Well, "any woman" is broader        than "another woman." "Any woman" means any of         . billion­plus women in the world, and that subsumes         "another woman," doesn't it?                MR. DAVIS: I don't think so, Your Honor. I            Alderson Reporting Company Official mean, I think that if a woman agreed to transport any             woman, it makes sense to think that she could transport          herself across State lines, but if the statute had said          "another woman," it doesn't make sense to say that she          could have transported another woman when she was merely         transporting herself.              JUSTICE KAGAN: Well, they're two different       words, but the syntactical problem seems to me to be          identical, which is that it's just not natural to say          that the transported woman is herself transporting any        woman, right? I mean, the transported woman is not           transporting any woman.               But the reason the Court said that a        conspiracy was possible there was because the       transported woman could agree with another person, let's        say, the man, that the man would transport any woman,          namely, herself. It's ­­ it's an almost identical         syntactical issue.              MR. DAVIS: I don't think so, Your Honor. I            think that transporting another woman would create a        much bigger textual issue than transporting any woman.                    If the woman goes to the man who is         transporting her and says, I'd like to help you         transport another woman, he would think that she is         talking about someone else, not about herself. It's         Alderson Reporting Company Official much more natural in the context of "any woman."                       The other reason those cases are    distinguishable, Your Honor, is because they use the        verb "transport" instead of "obtain." It's ­­ it's         conceivable to transport yourself; it's not really ­­ it         doesn't really make sense to obtain property from        yourself.             So I think those are distinguishable on        those grounds.              JUSTICE GINSBURG: What difference did it       make in this ­­ you're ­­ you're not contesting the          extortion convictions, right? You ­­ it's only the         conspiracy; is that right?                MR. DAVIS: That's correct, Your Honor, with        an asterisk, and that is if we were to prevail here, we            would go back to the Fourth Circuit and ask to vacate           the substantive convictions also on the basis of        spillover prejudice.              But for purposes of this appeal, you're       correct.             JUSTICE GINSBURG: And did the addition of        the conspiracy conviction affect the sentence?                  Would it have been different if there had        been no conspiracy charge.                MR. DAVIS: Your Honor, the sentences ran        Alderson Reporting Company Official concurrently. The difference it made was $ in         restitution payments that were attributable to two acts        of extortion that were not charged as substantive counts         in the indictment.               JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: I have a small question,          but not unimportant, which is: Who paid the bribe,          Majestic or the brothers?                MR. DAVIS: The brothers paid the bribes,        Your Honor, out of ­­                JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Out of their own       pockets, or did they ­­                MR. DAVIS: Out of the ­­                  JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: ­­ Majestic, issue a       check?             MR. DAVIS: Out of the Majestic bank        account, Your Honor.               JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: So why isn't Majestic       the other person here?                MR. DAVIS: Your Honor, the government       forfeited any argument that Majestic is the "another" by         not raising it at any ­­ at any stage in this Court,            in ­­ either in its cert stage briefing or in the ­­                       JUSTICE KENNEDY: Was Majestic a separate        corporation or was it just the proprietorship­owned?                   MR. DAVIS: The record is a little unclear          Alderson Reporting Company Official on that point. The testimony, to the extent it shows           anything, shows that Majestic was an LLC and then it          became a corporation at some point later. It's not           clear when.              But I think the government didn't raise that         argument for a good reason, and that's because the          testimony also showed that Moreno and Mejia were the         sole owners of Majestic, and that there was no         difference between them in practical effect.                  So in ­­ in practice, the money really came         from the ­­ from Moreno and Mejia, not from ­­                     JUSTICE ALITO: Well, Moreno and Mejia are        two ­­ are two people; they're not the same person,          right? So I assume even if it was ­­ let's say it was a                partnership, they each would be entitled to half of the          money, right?              correct.             MR. DAVIS: I think that's ­­ that's         JUSTICE ALITO: So Moreno could conspire       with Ocasio to obtain money from Mejia and Mejia         could conspire with Ocasio to obtain money from Moreno.                     MR. DAVIS: Your Honor, I don't think that          that theory works in this case because the bribes came          from them jointly. The payments came from them         together. They ­­ they were both aware of what each           Alderson Reporting Company Official other were doing and I think that they're         indistinguishable for purposes of this.                 JUSTICE KENNEDY: Did this government argue       this proposition as its theory of the case in the trial           court or here?               Your Honor.              MR. DAVIS: No, not that theory of the case,          JUSTICE SCALIA: You ­­ you acknowledge that        the ­­ that the police officer is ­­ is guilty of a            violation of the Hobbs Act, never mind the conspiracy,         but just the Hobbs Act violation.                  MR. DAVIS: We're not directly challenging       that here, Your Honor.                JUSTICE SCALIA: Well, if you don't ­­ if         you don't challenge that here, I ­­ as I recall, your             briefs say that to disagree with you in this case is to            establish a Federal law of bribery for the whole          country. But it seems to me you ­­ you have that once             you ­­ once you acknowledge that, never mind the         conspiracy charge, but just the substantive Hobbs Act        charge. That's a national bribery law, isn't it?                      MR. DAVIS: Justice Scalia, on one side of         the transaction, yes, on the public official side of the          transaction. But this Court in Evans did not ­­                     JUSTICE SCALIA: Well, that's all you need        Alderson Reporting Company Official to have a national law against bribery, it seems to me.            You just get one of the two, I don't think you have to              get both.              MR. DAVIS: Well, Your Honor, if ­­ if this          Court were to extend Evans in this case to cover not           only the public official side of the transaction but         also the private citizen side of the transaction, that         would be a dramatic expansion of the law of bribery. I             mean, Evans may or may not have been ­­ have been           correct, but I think it was the high­water mark, and the            Court has been careful not to ­­ not to extend it even            further in the years since.                 CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: What about ­­ what        do you do with the government's argument that Ocasio was          conspiring with other police officers to get the money         from another? In other words, that conspiracy got money          from another, the ­­ the two individuals.                   MR. DAVIS: Two responses to that, Your        Honor. The first is that under the jury instructions,          the jury could have convicted Ocasio based on a         conspiracy solely between him and the repair shop        owners, and under this Court's decision in Skilling, if         a ­­ if the jury could have returned a legally­invalid           verdict, the conviction has to be reversed.                   And I think that's a sufficient answer to          Alderson Reporting Company Official the question, but my second answer is that we disagree          with the government that there was sufficient evidence        in the record linking Ocasio with other police officers.         The evidence showed only that these police officers were         generally aware of what each other were doing. It          didn't show that they formed an agreement to work         together. And under this Court's decision in Kotteakos,         it was a hub­and­spokes conspiracy without the rim         enclosing the spokes.               CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: I think if I'm         remembering the government's response to your first       point, is that it certainly would have been harmless         error in this case.                MR. DAVIS: Your Honor, I find that response          a little difficult to understand. The ­­ the trial          overwhelmingly focused on linking Ocasio with Moreno and        Mejia, not with other police officers. The vast         majority of the testimony was about Moreno and Mejia         forming an agreement with Ocasio.                 The government's whole case went through      Moreno and Mejia. And the government would have had a           much more difficult case if it had to prove an agreement           between police officers to obtain property from Moreno        and Mejia. There just wasn't that much evidence of such           an agreement.  Alderson Reporting Company Official             Everything, again, went through that, hub of       Moreno and Mejia. So it's hard for me to imagine that            it would have been harmless error, let alone that the          jury would even have convicted if it had been instructed          that it had to find an agreement between multiple police          officers.             JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Is there any difference       to your argument based on the government's position that         your client was charged under the general conspiracy        statute and not the Hobbs Act statute?                   MR. DAVIS: Justice Sotomayor, no, I don't         think it makes a difference. The general conspiracy          statute just leads ­­ just leads the government straight         back to the Hobbs Act. It punishes each person who           conspires to commit an offense against the       United States. The offense gets against the        United States here is Hobbs Act extortion. One of its           elements is obtaining the property from another, so I         think the general conspiracy statute it leads right back         to the Hobbs Act in just maybe an extra step.                      JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: That's my problem, which       is it's not an extra step. You can conspire, if not            every ­­ you started by saying that not every         conspirator has to be ­­ commit the ­­ of every element           of the crime. So why can't the general conspiracy          Alderson Reporting Company Official statute do the work?                MR. DAVIS: Well, under the general       conspiracy statute, just like under the Hobbs Act, Your         Honor, every conspirator has to specifically intend that        someone commit every element of the crime. I think           that's been ­­              JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Well, is that ­­ that        begs Justice Kagan's question, which is they wanted        Ocasio ­­ they wanted the police officer to act under          color of right and to take the bribe.                    MR. DAVIS: And I think the key problem with           that, Your Honor, is that the repair shop owners did not           intend to help Ocasio obtain property from another.        They intended to help Ocasio obtain property from        themselves. And I think that's why there's not a unity             of purpose here.                 I mean, all ­­ everyone may have agreed on        the same course of conduct, like the government says.         And I think the only way the government can make its            interpretation sound plausible is by obscuring the words        "from another."              JUSTICE KAGAN: No, I don't think that's         right. The "from another" is clearly an element of the           substantive offense. But you're saying it should also         be a freestanding limit on the conspiracy offense, and          Alderson Reporting Company Official there's no reason for that to be true. It is, of            course, right that somebody has to obtain property from         another, but the conspiracy offense is made out if two          people agree that somebody should obtain property from        another. And that's exactly the situation here.                    MR. DAVIS: Your Honor, I think that, again,          the repair shop owners did not intend to obtain property          from another. And ­­ and I think the way that ­­                        JUSTICE KAGAN: They intended and they       agreed that Mr. Ocasio should obtain property from        another. And that's all they have to do.                     MR. DAVIS: Your Honor, I think going back          to how that kind of conversation would happen in         ordinary English is a way to see why it's not plausible            to read the statute like that.                  If the repair shop owners go to Ocasio and         say, I want to help you obtain property from another,           Ocasio would think that they're talking about someone        else. I think the government's interpretation is much          more formalistic.              JUSTICE KAGAN: It's a statute, and the         statute just says the other has to be somebody different          from Ocasio himself. So in this particular case, the          somebody other is the people who are in the agreement.          In another case, the somebody other might be somebody         Alderson Reporting Company Official who is outside the agreement. The statute just ­­         the ­­ the substantive law says it has to be from           another.             The conspiracy ­­ and this is just ­­ it's         consistent with Salinas, it's consistent with Holt, it's        consistent with everything we've ever said about       conspiracy law ­­ is that it just has to be an agreement            for somebody to do that substantive offense even if the          people agree and can't do it themselves.                   And it's true, the people agreeing can't do        it themselves. They can't obtain property from another.         But Mr. Ocasio can, and they're agreeing that he should.                      MR. DAVIS: Your Honor, even if that's a         plausible interpretation of the statute, which we don't        think it is, it's definitely not the most natural way to           read it. If you talk to any ­­ any nonlawyer about the             statute, they would ­­ they would say that if you agree           to form ­­ if you agree to obtain property from another,           you'd be talking about someone outside the conspiracy.                    And, you know, the government's     interpretation also requires you to figure out how        someone can conspire to obtain their own consent. It          requires shifting perspectives as you navigate your way        through the statute. And I think that our          interpretation is ­­ is much more consistent with the         Alderson Reporting Company Official way people would actually talk about this offense.                       I mean, in some form ­­               JUSTICE GINSBURG: What about aiding and       abetting? Could the brothers who own the body shop,          could they ­­ could they be charged with aiding and          abetting ­­                                     MR. DAVIS: Justice Ginsburg ­­     JUSTICE GINSBURG: ­­ the extortion?      MR. DAVIS: Justice Ginsburg, I don't think         that they could. I think the same textual problem would            exist for aiding and abetting liability. U.S.C. is            the general aiding and abetting statute, and it leads         you straight back to the Hobbs Act in the same way that            the general conspiracy statute does. So I don't ­­ I            don't think so.               JUSTICE BREYER: Is it ­­ is it extortion or          attempted extortion? If two brothers, as here, try to          get money from a third party and the third party really            wants to give them the money ­­ say, for example, he           wants to give them the money because he's going to          illustrate how awful the police are in that town. Or he            gives them the money because he thinks it's funny. Or           he gives them the money ­­ is that extortion?                     Because I'm having trouble distinguishing     between why it should be extortion but not conspiracy         Alderson Reporting Company Official for extortion, because that's what you're aiming at.        You're prepared to say, okay, it's extortion. Well, if          it's extortion, you've heard all the arguments and why         can't these other people commit it and you're simply         helping them. But is it extortion?                   MR. DAVIS: Your Honor, this Court has        defined extortion in Evans to mean ­­ to basically mean          when a public official takes a bribe, and, you know, we             take that holding as a given.                   JUSTICE BREYER: He takes a bribe, all         right? Is it ­­ is it a bribe when the person just              showers him with money, hoping for nothing illegal?                    MR. DAVIS: No.                JUSTICE BREYER: He might think it's a        bribe, but ­­ but is it?                  MR. DAVIS: Well, Your Honor, there has ­­                    JUSTICE BREYER: He voluntarily gives him       the money expecting joy and happiness. I mean, you see,            that's where it seems to me the odd part of the case            lies.             MR. DAVIS: Well, Your Honor, I think if he           just gave him ­­ showered him with gifts not expecting          anything, it would not be extortion because there has to          be a quid pro quo. The money has to be paid in return               for specific official acts. So that would not be an act            Alderson Reporting Company Official of ­­             JUSTICE BREYER: All right. So if bribe,         then we're back ­­ if bribery is extortion, then why          isn't conspiracy to commit bribery conspiracy to commit        extortion? We're back where we began. The odd thing is            in calling bribery extortion. Once you cross that         bridge ­­ that's where we started. But we're back ­­ in            my mind, it sort of got back where we started. And            you're trying to drive a wedge there, and all your           arguments seem to be me, really, to be aimed at why are            we calling bribery extortion?                            MR. DAVIS: I don't ­­      JUSTICE BREYER: Because they are showering       with money. They love it.                  MR. DAVIS: Your Honor, we're not taking        direct aim at Evans. And I don't ­­                     JUSTICE BREYER: I know that, but, I mean,           how you're asking me to make that distinction, how do I           do it?              MR. DAVIS: Well, Your Honor, I think Evans          dealt with a substantive offense, and this case deals          with conspiracy. And when you overlay a conspiratorial          agreement on top of a substantive offense, it just stops           making sense grammatically to talk about the offense the         way the government does.    Alderson Reporting Company Official             Again, when two people reach an agreement       that one will pay the other one a bribe, it just ­­ it              doesn't make sense of ordinary English to say that         they're agreeing to obtain property from someone else,        from another.                I also think ­­ you know, I don't want the          phrase "with his consent" to get lost here also. The           Hobbs Act punishes the obtaining of property with his ­­         from another with his consent. And as Judge Sutton          explained in ­­ in the Brock decision, how can someone          conspire ­­ how would or why ­­ how could or why would            someone conspire to obtain their own consent? So even          if you don't agree with us on the ­­ on the "from            another" language, I think the "with his consent"         language does it as well.                             And then the other textual point ­­      CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, before ­­ I        mean, the government says, of course, is there's ­­        there's consent and there's consent, and they suggest        that there's a difference between consent and        conspiracy. Right?                           MR. DAVIS: Right.    CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, what's your       answer to that?               MR. DAVIS: Well, we agree with that,        Alderson Reporting Company Official Your Honor. We think that there are plenty of instances           of consent under the Hobbs Act that would not be a           conspiratorial agreement. But it's hard to see what         payment of a bribe would not be a conspiratorial           agreement under the government's theory. Maybe there's        some narrow category of cases where the bribe pair is          just acquiescing to an official demand as it ­­                    JUSTICE BREYER: And what payment of a bribe          is not extortion?               think ­­             MR. DAVIS: I ­­ I agree, Your Honor. I             JUSTICE BREYER: All right. So the only         ground, then, we could say is say, well, they went just           up to the limit of the logic in the other case, and            we're just not going to be logical to extend it further.                                               MR. DAVIS: I think ­­      JUSTICE BREYER: Is that ­­     MR. DAVIS: I don't think that's quite         right, Your Honor.               JUSTICE SCALIA: Works for me.                  (Laughter.)             MR. DAVIS: I ­­ I think that is a ground,              Your Honor. I don't think it's the only ground.                         I think the other ground would be the plain        text of the statute. I mean, Evans ­­ in Evans, the ­­             Alderson Reporting Company Official the government didn't have the same textual problem that         it has in this case. The government didn't have to           grapple with the "from another" language. And in this          case, "from another" most naturally means someone       outside the ­­ the conspiracy.                  The other point ­­ textual point I'd like       to ­­             JUSTICE KAGAN: Mr. Davis, if you could go         back to what you just said about the consent. I mean,             look, I mean, Evans makes perfectly clear that bribes          and kickbacks are included in this statute. And ­­ and           there is a difference between ­­ there ­­ there are           cases in which somebody participates in a kickback         scheme and does not consent.                   I mean, suppose some public official comes      in and says, in order for me to give you a license to do               something, to be, you know, a member of some profession,           let's say a cosmetologist, you need to pay me $ as a             kickback. And the person, you know, pays him $          because you've got to get your license. But there's no           way in the world in which that would count as a           conspiratorial agreement. It would count as consent        under the Hobbs Act.                So there's a big gap between consent and a          conspiratorial agreement, even in the context of bribes.        Alderson Reporting Company Official             MR. DAVIS: Justice Kagan, I don't disagree         with you, but with an asterisk. I think there is a gray               area there where someone just acquiesces to an official         demand like you're saying. Those may not be         conspiratorial agreements. But I think still, there is          a large category of bribery cases that would ­­ would          still be conspiratorial agreements under the      government's theory, anytime someone, like in Salinas,       pays a bribe in exchange for official action and wasn't           required to do so.                So I think still the government's theory        would render some of the language in unnecessary.         You know, U.S.C. has specific monetary thresholds         put on when a bribe is a Federal crime. And the ­­ and                none of ­­ the bribe has to be over $,. The State             official has to work for an agency that receives $,          or more in Federal funds. And I think in a lot of those                cases, the government could just avoid those limitations        by charging the case as a conspiracy to commit extortion           under the Hobbs Act.                And that's even though there may be a        category of cases that would not be a conspiratorial          agreement, but that would be consent under the Hobbs         Act.             On one more textual point, Your Honors, the        Alderson Reporting Company Official statute also punishes whoever conspires to obtain       property from another, which, I think, reinforces our         reading that the "whoever" who obtains the property has         to be a different person from the "another" from whom           property is obtained.               And I think the general conspiracy statute        gets to the same place by just a slightly more           circuitous route. It punishes each person who conspires         to commit any offense against the United States.                    JUSTICE ALITO: Is it fair to say that you          are advancing an argument that is limited to the precise          language of the Hobbs Act? You ­­ you are not taking            issue with the proposition that a person can conspire to           commit offense that the person could not personally        commit. And you distinguish the Hobbs Act from the          Mann Act because one refers to "any" and another refers          to "another."              So is it fair to say that what you want is a            special conspiracy rule that applies only in cases of         Hobbs Act conspiracies?               MR. DAVIS: No, Your Honor. I think that           what we're asking for is just to apply the language of           the general conspiracy statute in light of the words         from another in the Hobbs Act. And when you put the two             together ­­ Alderson Reporting Company Official             JUSTICE ALITO: And if another substantive       offense doesn't have the word "obtain property from" ­­        the phrase "obtain property from another," then your ­­        your rule doesn't apply?                MR. DAVIS: I think that's generally right,         Your Honor. Our textual arguments would not apply. I           think there would still be an issue of, you know,          there's a ­­ there's a principle that when the           substantive offense requires the ­­ necessarily requires       agreement, you're not supposed to add a conspiracy         charge on that, but that's just a presumption. I think             you're right that our ­­ our textual argument would         not ­­ would not apply in the absence of the words           "another," "with his consent," and "whoever."                  I'd like ­­ if there are no further        questions, I'd like to reserve my time for rebuttal.                     CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, counsel.                   Mr. Kedem.                ORAL ARGUMENT OF ALLON KEDEM                    ON BEHALF OF THE RESPONDENT                 MR. KEDEM: Mr. Chief Justice, and may it         please the Court:                 A conspiracy is an agreement to commit an       offense against the United States, that is, a joint          commitment to a plan that, if completed, would satisfy          Alderson Reporting Company Official all elements of the substantive offense. And while all          conspirators must agree on that goal, no particular        member of the conspiracy must agree that he, himself,         will commit all or even any of the substantive elements          of the offense.                 And so you don't ask whether all     conspirators or the conspiracy as a whole agreed to          obtain property from another any more than you would ask          whether the conspiracy as a whole acted under color of           official right.              JUSTICE KENNEDY: Do ­­ do you agree that         under your approach, every private individual who seeks        to bribe a State official is liable for conspiracy to           commit Hobbs Act extortion?                MR. KEDEM: We don't. And that's because of          active participation.              Let me explain where that comes from and        then how it applies to this case.                   Holte and Gebardi concerned the Mann Act,       which prohibited the transportation of a woman across         State lines for immoral purposes. And the question was          whether a woman who was transported could conspire to          violate the Act.               In answering that question, the Court      focused on two things. First of all, although the Act           Alderson Reporting Company Official contemplates the involvement of the woman, it doesn't        impose substantive criminal liability on her. And,        second, some minimal form of agreement is an inherent         feature of most instances of the offense.                   Based on those two factors, the Court said,        if that's all there is, if the only thing that the woman            agrees to is to the transportation itself, that is, the          bare outlines of the crime, that by itself would be          insufficient to make her a conspirator. But if she were            to agree to do more ­­ if, for instance, she were to            purchase the tickets or to arrange the transportation in         some other way ­­ then she could be a conspirator.                       And so in this case, with respect to a bribe           pair, if all the bribe pair agrees to do is turn over            money in return for official acts, that by itself would          be insufficient to make the bribe pair a conspirator.                      JUSTICE KENNEDY: Well, suppose he arranges       to meet on the park bench at : o'clock, and has a            follow­up call to the official to please be there. Is           that ­­ does that suffice?                 MR. KEDEM: I think that would be incidental          to the one thing that they're really agreeing to do,          which is to turn over the money.                   But contrast that with what happened in this        case. Because Moreno and Mejia didn't just hand over an           Alderson Reporting Company Official envelope with $ bills in it. They worked closely in           conjunction with police officers, including Petitioner.                  For instance, when Petitioner went to the       scene of an accident, he would call Moreno, and they          would talk about what cars were involved: The make,          model, the year, what extent of damage was involved.         And then Moreno would consult with Petitioner about        which cars would be most lucrative to have in the shop.                       And so it wasn't simply a case of agreeing          to the bare outlines of the crime. He agreed to           facilitate it in additional ways.                 to a jury?                            a jury?              two things.              JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: How do you charge that        MR. KEDEM: Pardon?    JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: How do you charge it to         MR. KEDEM: I think you would tell the jury           First, in order for a bribe pair to be a           conspirator, they have to agree to actively participate        in the plan.                           And second ­­  JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Well, I mean, I'm a         juror and I say, I ­­ police officer came to me, asked              me for bucks, and he'll let me go for my ticket. I'm              Alderson Reporting Company Official active participation. That's what I'm thinking.                   MR. KEDEM: The second one is that you would          have to tell the jury that if all you've agreed to do is             to turn over money in return for official acts, then          that by itself is insufficient.                 JUSTICE SCALIA: Okay. That's lovely. And         that ­­ you know, that prevents this law from ­­ Federal           law from hitting anybody who pays a bribe, which is           certainly a desirable result.                 But I don't see how it comports with your          theory of the case. I mean, there is just as much of an               agreement between the two people to obtain money from         another, whether that other actively participates or       not.             Where ­­ where do you get this active        participation requirement from?                           MR. KEDEM: Well ­­    JUSTICE SCALIA: Except to make it up to         sweeten the deal, so that ­­ so that we ­­ we don't            extend this ­­ this law too far.                   MR. KEDEM: Active participation comes from       Holte and Gebardi, and it's also notable that the         government didn't make up the requirement for purposes        of this case. The First, Second, Fourth, and Fifth          Circuits have used active participation in the context        Alderson Reporting Company Official of Hobbs Act extortion ­­                from?                         JUSTICE SCALIA: And where did they get it         MR. KEDEM: They get it from ­­       JUSTICE SCALIA: And where did Holte and        Gebardi get it from?                MR. KEDEM: I think Holte and Gebardi see it           as a gloss on the type of agreement that's necessary to            make a particular person a conspirator.                    JUSTICE SCALIA: But that's not what       conspiracy law says. It's any agreement. If ­­ if you            agree, you're ­­ you're liable to conspiracy. Where ­­         where do ­­ can ­­ can you hang on this active ­­ is             there an active participation requirement for other       conspiracies?             MR. KEDEM: In this ­­ in this Court's case          in Abuelhawa, which is cited at footnote in our brief,            the Court also relied on Gebardi to raise the level of           facilitation that would be required for a drug purchaser          to be held liable for facilitating the sale of a drug.                                    JUSTICE KAGAN: But I ­­ I ­­         CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Where is the ­­ the         active participation point in the jury instructions?                   MR. KEDEM: It's not in the jury        instructions because Petitioner never requested it,      Alderson Reporting Company Official despite the fact that active participation was already        the law in the Fourth Circuit.                     I would also point out that it was      Petitioner's argument that it simply doesn't matter how        actively a bribe pair facilitates the extortion.        Moreover, there was no dispute in this case that Moreno          and Mejia made an active role. In fact, it was           Petitioner's contention at trial that they were, in        fact, the masterminds of this scheme.                  Justice Scalia, if you don't like active       participation, then you would simply revert to the        common law standard in which agreeing to the outlines of          the crime would be sufficient, even if you were a bribe            pair.                                     JUSTICE KAGAN: So if ­­     JUSTICE SCALIA: That makes sense to me.        JUSTICE KAGAN: If ­­ if I could just          understand what you're saying, you think active       participation is more than an agreement along the        typical conspiracy lines.               MR. KEDEM: I think normally agreeing to the          bare outlines of the crime would be sufficient for most          conspirators. I think ­­                             JUSTICE KENNEDY: Would ­­ would?      MR. KEDEM: Would, that's correct.      Alderson Reporting Company Official             But I think active participation is a way to           raise the threshold ­­                                       JUSTICE KAGAN: Right. But ­­      MR. KEDEM: ­­ certain types of crimes.        JUSTICE KAGAN: ­­ this does sound more like         an aiding and abetting standard than it does a         conspiracy standard, because typically in conspiracy we       say it doesn't really matter if you actively        participate, as long as you reach an agreement.                                MR. KEDEM: I ­­     JUSTICE KAGAN: Now that agreement is more        than acquiescence, right? It's more than I reluctantly          give you the bribe that you're demanding of me.                                 MR. KEDEM: That's right.     JUSTICE KAGAN: But ­­ but I guess I'm with           Justice Scalia that I don't really quite understand how          to get from the typical real agreement that we require          in conspiracy cases to some higher standard with respect         to this crime of active participation.                  MR. KEDEM: I think it's a gloss on what you             have to agree to do in order to be considered a           conspirator. So it's true that the agreement itself is          what's criminal when it comes to a conspiracy, whereas          with aiding and abetting, it's acts. And I think it's a             similar inquiry. With aiding and abetting, you act ­­         Alderson Reporting Company Official you ask: Did you actively participate in the crime?          And with conspiracy, you ask: Did you agree to actively           participate in the crime?                If I could attack ­­ if I could refer to my             friend's argument about unity of purpose, he's correct        that there does need to be a unity of purpose, but he's             incorrect as to what that purpose needs to be.                     Under Salinas, all members of the conspiracy       must agree on a plan that is an offense against the            United States; that is, an offense, a plan that, if           completed, would satisfy all elements of the substantive        offense.             And Petitioner says Evans was the high­water       mark in interpreting the Hobbs Act. But the ­­                     JUSTICE BREYER: The ­­ the answer, as I         understand this now, the purpose of this active        participation doctrine is let's look at the substantive        offense. And all of a sudden we're saying every           policeman, every State official, everyone in the country        who goes to any person and says, give me some money for            my position, they're already guilty. That already is         extortion on this case that we've been talking about         before, right?                          MR. KEDEM: That's right.     JUSTICE BREYER: Okay.    Alderson Reporting Company Official MR. KEDEM: But ­­    JUSTICE BREYER: So now what you're going to                                 do is you're going to make not only them guilty of the            Federal crime, you're going to make anybody who pays         them guilty of the Federal crime. That's the purpose of           this case.              Now you say don't worry about it, because        there's situation A and situation B.                   In situation A, the policeman is the heavy,        and all the victim's done is stop at the traffic light.           He says, give me the money, and that's a bribe, all            right? He's a bad guy, the policeman; the victim is not             so bad.              But in the other case, the victim says, I         love it, like these people, because we're really getting         money from the public. That's what they're trying to          do ­­ who are the real victims here, but they're not ­­           that's not charged that way.                 And that's what the active participation      thing is designed to do, separate the ­­ the sort of           innocent victims who aren't policemen from the       cooperating victims who love the policemen to take the         money because they want the result; is that right?                     think ­­ MR. KEDEM: I think that's correct. I          Alderson Reporting Company Official JUSTICE BREYER: Okay. I've got it right so          MR. KEDEM: That's ­­    JUSTICE BREYER: The argument on his side is                     far.                         don't make a bad situation worse.                               MR. KEDEM: Well ­­    JUSTICE BREYER: We already are federalizing       vast numbers of State crimes, which really are the         States' business. And now you're not necessarily        doubling the number, but you're increasing it by about          percent. Now that ­­ that's what I've got as a            practical argument that he's making. And ­­ and your          answer to that is, don't worry it's not your business.          It's just follow the logic.                 MR. KEDEM: I think under active        participation, you wouldn't be doing that.                                          JUSTICE BREYER: I understand.      MR. KEDEM: I would also point ­­        JUSTICE BREYER: What I'm interested in is        if I understand it correctly.                  MR. KEDEM: I think you do, Your Honor.                        I would also point out that the argument he        makes with regard to "from another" has nothing in         particular to do with the Hobbs Act. It would apply any            time a statute uses phrases like "from another" or "to           Alderson Reporting Company Official another." And let me give you an example.                     CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, before you do,        I'm still stuck on the jury instructions. You cite in           your brief language on Joint Appendix page where the          judge says ­­ I think these are the instructions. Maybe            I'm wrong, but you cite them, where the judge says mere           knowledge or acquiescence without participation in the       unlawful plan is not sufficient.                 Is that ­­ that's the language, I take it,          you're talking about with ­­                            MR. KEDEM: That's ­­    CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: ­­ "the jury was        instructed."             MR. KEDEM: That was given ­­ given the         jury, but I think that's the standard conspiracy         instruction.             CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, on page ,        it says, "The extent of a defendant's participation has          no bearing on the issue of his guilt." And I just             wondered whether your ­­ it's active participation.       That suggests to me something that goes to the extent of           the defendant's participation.               MR. KEDEM: That's right. A different         instruction would be given, but it's important to        emphasize that Petitioner did not appeal the failure to         Alderson Reporting Company Official give a specific jury instruction. He didn't request          one, and that was not the basis for appeal. He had a             sufficiency of the evidence challenge on appeal, and        that's what's before this Court.                 Moreover, there is overwhelming evidence     that Moreno and Mejia did, in fact, actively        participate. In fact, that was Petitioner's very theory         at trial.              But let me give you an example of how         Petitioner's argument with regard to "from another" does        not necessarily only focus on the Hobbs Act. Imagine          the for instance, there was a statute that said if you            steal from a bank while pointing a gun at another, it's             aggravated bank robbery. And imagine a robber says to           his friend, you go into the bank ahead of me. I'll run             in, point a gun at your head, and say, cashier give me             all of your money.                According to Petitioner, that would not be       conspiracy, because judged ­­ from the perspective of        the conspiracy as a whole, no gun was pointed at           another. And at base, Petitioner's argument is that         every element of the substantive offense has to be         judged in a conspiracy from the perspective of the          conspiracy as a single, undifferentiated whole.                     A couple responses to that. First of all,        Alderson Reporting Company Official it's not even clear what that means; for instance, how          it could be that a conspiracy as a whole obtains            property under color of official right.                  Second of all, it contradicts the very       premise behind conspiracy liability, which is that       different members of the conspiracy agree to play        different roles, and it's only when you add those         various roles together that you get the completed        offense.             JUSTICE SCALIA: I'm afraid you haven't       scared me. I don't ­­ I don't think that in the              situation you posit where ­­ where the ­­ the two gunmen           say you come into the bank with me and I'll point the            gun at your head and say, what, unless you cough up the            money, I'm going to shoot my friend. I don't see why             that would be a conspiracy ­­                              another.             MR. KEDEM: I don't ­­      JUSTICE SCALIA: ­­ to point a gun at          MR. KEDEM: I don't think, Justice Scalia,         you would say, give me the money or I'll kill my friend.            I think the friend would pretend to be a customer in the             bank.                         JUSTICE SCALIA: Sure. But ­­ well ­­        MR. KEDEM: And I think the two of them           Alderson Reporting Company Official would have formed the plan in order to accomplish the          aggravated robbery.              JUSTICE SCALIA: And I would not think that          that's a conspiracy to point a gun at another.                                   MR. KEDEM: Well, Justice ­­     JUSTICE SCALIA: It's a conspiracy to point         a gun between themselves.                MR. KEDEM: Justice Scalia, I think that         only is true if you judge each element of the offense ­­                                   conspiracy.             JUSTICE SCALIA: No, I understand ­­       MR. KEDEM: ­­ with regard to the        JUSTICE SCALIA: ­­ but you were trying to         present a clear example.                             MR. KEDEM: Sure.    JUSTICE SCALIA: And it doesn't seem to me         very clear at all.                MR. KEDEM: Justice Scalia, we cite about a         half dozen other Federal statutes that also similarly        use phrases like "from another" and "to another" that         would be similarly affected by Petitioner's argument.                     I would also like to ­­                JUSTICE KENNEDY: But the other reason your        hypothetical doesn't work too well is we know that he's          not going to pull the gun because he's his friend, but           Alderson Reporting Company Official in this case the money is going to be given. So it             doesn't work.              MR. KEDEM: Well, Justice Kennedy, I would         point you then to the statute that we cite that talks           about someone who is a government official who receives          coded, secret information from another and provides it        to another. Petitioner's only response is there may be          some other statute that you could prosecute under in the          case in which the "from another" and "to another" are          both officials of other governments. But what if there          are not? What if they're officials ­­ what if they're           members of a terrorist organization, for instance?                    I'd like to also address my friend's       argument with respect to the word "whoever" in        Subsection A. I don't think it works for a couple             reasons.             First of all, the word "whoever" in       Subsection A ­­ and this is best addressed if looking           directly at the words of the statute at page a to the            appendix to our brief. "Whoever," in Subsection (a), is          not the subject of the phrase "obtaining of property         from another" in Subsection (b)(). If it were, then no           private citizen could ever be member of a conspiracy          because no private citizen can obtain property from        another under color of official right.      Alderson Reporting Company Official             Instead, the word "whoever" is the subject       of the phrase "obstructs, delays, or affects commerce"        by extortion or agrees or conspires so to do. And to            give you an example of how that can be affected, even if            you yourself are not the person who commits the         extortion, imagine a case of robbery in which there is a            central organizer who brings together robbers who have        various skills and gives them a plan but doesn't himself           intend to participate in the robbery. In that case, he           would have conspired to obstruct, delay, or affect        commerce by robbery, even though he himself would not be          committing robbery.              And the same is true with respect to        extortion. Moreno and Mejia were part of a plan which            they actively facilitated that obstructed, delayed, and       affected commerce by extortion.                JUSTICE BREYER: Well, is it ­­ if ­­        what ­­ I'm still ­­ a crime requires that the victim            give consent. Now, what kind of ­­ it could be           obtaining consent to do something. Smith obtains        consent to do something. The victim agrees with Smith          to participate in that crime. But in agreeing to do it,            he is giving consent. So from that point on, there is            no further consent to be given. So it's like robbing           the pocket of a stone idol or some ­­ what used to be              Alderson Reporting Company Official called in law school ­­ once the consent is given.                      So maybe he is agreeing to participate in a         conspiracy to attempt to get the consent. But he's          agreeing to the ­­ he gives the consent at the moment he            agrees.                         MR. KEDEM: Justice Breyer ­­     JUSTICE BREYER: So how can you be        conspiring to ­­ to do something to get a consent that            was already given?               MR. KEDEM: Justice Breyer ­­                 JUSTICE BREYER: You could conspire to       attempt to get it, but not to get it, if you're being            really picky on these words.                 MR. KEDEM: The issue of consent is really a          red herring in this case, because as my friend just          stated, consent from the common law for extortion falls         well below the meeting of the minds that you would need           for conspiratorial agreement. And that much is made         clear by the fact that even in cases of coercive          extortion, that is extortion induced by wrongful use of         actual or threatened force, violence, or fear, you would         still need consent.               And so the type of agreement that we're        talking about, with or without the active participation        requirement, is well above the threshold for consent        Alderson Reporting Company Official under the common law.                CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: You haven't talked       about Majestic yet, and your friend said that's maybe         because you had never raised that below. Is that ­­ is            that true? In other words, the Majestic is the other           from which the funds are going to be obtained?                     MR. KEDEM: That's not accurate. It was         raised in the trial court. The trial court made a           ruling that Majestic was also another, and the court of          appeals decided not to adopt that argument. We haven't          pursued it in this Court.                   I would also point out ­­                CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Was that just ­­ was         that in your brief in opposition to certiorari?                    MR. KEDEM: We talked about the fact that in          this case you could look at Majestic as another, and we           talked about that in the context of the Brock case out           of the Sixth Circuit, but we're not ­­                   JUSTICE KENNEDY: Is Majestic a sole        proprietorship?             MR. KEDEM: It started out as an LLC, but          became a corporation, as cited in footnote of our            brief.             JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Was it indicted as part        of this crime?   Alderson Reporting Company Official             MR. KEDEM: It wasn't indicted, but it was         in the indictment stated that money came from Majestic.                       JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: You do say in your brief       that if we adopt the Petitioner's argument, that        basically you would never have any cases. But I'm not           sure that's right. For example, the most common         situation is the New York City permitting official.        Generally, they agree with developers to have       contractors pay them a bribe to expedite their work.          That, you could prosecute because two people are        agreeing to get money from another, the contractors.        Those situations are not so unusual.                              MR. KEDEM: I don't ­­      JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: I think, as one of my          colleagues said, there was a conspiracy here to get          money from the victims.                MR. KEDEM: I don't think, Justice        Sotomayor, that our argument is you would never have         instances in which the conspiracy provision would apply.        I think what we're saying is, this is precisely the type           of scenario in which conspiracy liability should attach.        And I think there may be a sense by some that clever              prosecutors, maybe in some cases, are pushing the bounds         of conspiracy law beyond where they're ­­ traditionally        have gone, and using it in ways that perhaps are not           Alderson Reporting Company Official warranted.             Whatever the merits of that criticism as a        general matter, this is not that case. The criminal          conspiracy in this case was a durable, multifaceted,         criminal enterprise that had a division of labor and          succeeded over the course of several years in committing         not only numerous acts of extortion, but other forms of          illegality as well.               JUSTICE KAGAN: You had no other substantive        crime to charge against the brothers?                  MR. KEDEM: The brothers also pled guilty to         aiding and abetting extortion which, under Petitioner's       theory, would not have been possible.                  JUSTICE BREYER: Why didn't you just charge        them with getting money from the customers? I mean,           that's who ­­ they're conspiring ­­ after all, they're         giving $ to the policeman. They aren't        philanthropists. They think they're going to get that         money back from the people whose cars are wrecked.                     also ­­             MR. KEDEM: That's correct. They could        JUSTICE BREYER: So those are the other        people. I mean, this is really a conspiracy on behalf             of the policeman and the ­­ and the owner of the repair            shop to get money from a customer, a person whose car             Alderson Reporting Company Official was wrecked. That's why they do it; isn't it?                      MR. KEDEM: That is true, Justice Breyer,        but they didn't necessarily commit a crime against the          customer if all they did is repair the customer's car.          Now, they did also commit various forms of insurance         fraud, but put that to the side.                    In this scheme, if all they did was get        money from a customer and fix the car as promised, then            they would not have committed a crime necessarily         against the customer.               JUSTICE KAGAN: And, indeed, isn't it right        that what Justice Breyer is saying was the very theory          behind Evans, why this was extortion, is because the         real crime was to the public at large, not to any           particular customer. But yes, there was a crime to           the ­­ the general public.                 MR. KEDEM: That's correct. The victim in         cases of extortion is not necessarily the person who         pays the bribe, who might do so willingly and might do           so in order to get something from the public official.                      JUSTICE SCALIA: And the Federal      government's interest in this case, right, the       reason is ­­ is, what?                             MR. KEDEM: Well, Justice Scalia ­­      JUSTICE SCALIA: That automobiles are      Alderson Reporting Company Official instruments of interstate commerce?                MR. KEDEM: Justice Scalia, I think Evans         settled that the mere receipt of a bribe in return for            performing officials acts is, in fact, extortion. And I          don't think that's at issue here.                  JUSTICE SCALIA: Oh, oh, it doesn't have to         be any ­­ any Federal constitutional authority, just ­­                    MR. KEDEM: There does have the to be         constitutional authority.              JUSTICE SCALIA: Well, what is it? I mean,           here, it is ­­ I assume that it's automobiles.                      MR. KEDEM: That's ­­ well, Justice Scalia,        it's affecting commerce and there was evidence at trial         that, for instance, insurance payments came from out of         State. And that was specifically used to ­­ to show the            affecting commerce element.                 I would also point out that if you were        simply to charge Petitioner with three isolated       instances of extortion, of the substantive act of        extortion, it would not reflect the full range of his          misconduct because, again, he didn't simply receive       money and then refer cars for it. He worked closely in            conjunction with Moreno and Mejia.                 CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: You ­­ you agree        with your friend's point, though, that charging the        Alderson Reporting Company Official conspiracy gives the prosecutor considerably broader      range in the evidence that he wants to admit at trial?                       MR. KEDEM: I think that that does sometimes          happen, but that's a general principle that has no          specific relation to the argument that Petitioner is        making in this case.                JUSTICE ALITO: What is the relationship       between that argument and the question of whether        there's a conspiracy between Ocasio and Moreno and         Mejia? It might apply to the conspiracy between ­­ the           alleged conspiracy between Ocasio and the other police        officers because it ­­ although it could allow the ­­         make it easier to admit evidence of what the other          police officers did.                           MR. KEDEM: That's right.     JUSTICE ALITO: But what ­­ it has no ­­         whether or not there was a conspiracy between Ocasio and           Moreno and Mejia doesn't seem to me to have anything ­­          anything to do with what evidence would be admissible at          trial.                         MR. KEDEM: That's right, Justice Alito.       CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, I thought you         told me that was wrong. I thought you told me you             agreed with your friend that it gives broader scope to          the range of evidence that could be admitted beyond         Alderson Reporting Company Official charging simply the substantive offense.                 MR. KEDEM: It does ­­ it does,        Mr. Chief Justice, but that would still have been true          even if Moreno and Mejia were not charged as         co­conspirators because there was voluminous evidence ­­      and we cited in the last portion of our brief ­­ that            Petitioner conspired with other police officers as well.        For instance, he was recruited into the scheme by         another police officer, probably Officer Rodriguez, who       was indicted along with him.                 CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Do you ­­ do you         agree that the most that that gets you is a remand to             address the Skilling question?                MR. KEDEM: We don't. We don't. Skilling          was an issue about jury instructions. And, again,         Petitioner's challenge in the court of appeals as it ­­         and as it comes to this Court is not about the jury            instructions.               I would point you instead to Griffin v.       United States, U.S. , which talks about        sufficiency challenges, which is what this is.                   And if you look at that evidence, not only         was Petitioner recruited by other officers, he himself        tried to recruit other officers into this scene. For          instance, trying to set up his own referral network.         Alderson Reporting Company Official             Moreover, there was evidence that he and       Officer Rodriguez worked together on at least one        occasion to bring a car into Majestic.                    CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: And ­­ and is it a          sufficiency ­­ I would have thought it's a statutory           interpretation challenge and not simply a sufficiency of         the evidence challenge.               MR. KEDEM: Well, Mr. Chief Justice, I don't          think there was a specific instruction to the jury one           way or another about whether they either could or         couldn't find it just based on Moreno and Mejia. And as            a result, because there was a general verdict, you don't           know specifically whether the jury relied on Moreno and         Mejia alone or whether they also relied on other         officers.             And under that circumstance, I think Griffin        says it's a ­­ just a general sufficiency challenge.                       CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, on that I        guess your ­­ your friend says that the whole thrust of           the case you presented was based on the conspiracy         between the two brothers and the officer rather than the          spokes, I guess is the jargon, involving the different          officers with Ocasio. Is that true?                   MR. KEDEM: We don't think that's true. I          would refer you to all of the evidence we cite in the            Alderson Reporting Company Official last section of our brief. This was the way it was            indicted. The indictment itself said that Petitioner        conspired with other officers.                It was also specifically cited in the       closing argument to the jury, that they were able to          find that he had conspired with other officers. And          there was a great deal of evidence that he did so.                        JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Isn't that just harmless       error, assuming we agree with your ­­ your ­­ with the           Petitioner and say the other has to be somebody else?                      MR. KEDEM: We don't think that it's        harmless error, but I do take your point that it's an            alternative grounds for holding for the government.                   JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: So you think it's       sufficiency?             MR. KEDEM: I do. I think that's what            Griffin v. United States says.                                         If there are no further questions.      CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, counsel.       Mr. Davis, you have four minutes remaining.                  REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF ETHAN P. DAVIS                    ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONER                 MR. DAVIS: Thank you. I'll start with my          friend's Griffin point. We directly challenged the jury         instructions in our brief in this Court and the         Alderson Reporting Company Official government did not raise any sort of argument that this          was just a sufficiency case there, so I think that is             water under the bridge. But ­­                  JUSTICE KENNEDY: But did you challenge the        instructions in the district court as well?                   MR. DAVIS: We challenged the jury       instructions in the district court, yes, Your Honor.        There was an objection raised to the government's        proposed instructions there.               I'd like to turn to the active participant        standard. We agree with Justice Scalia that the active          participant standard doesn't come from anything in the        statute or anything in basic principles of conspiracy        law. Conspiracy just requires an agreement and        sometimes an overt act, and this active participant        standard doesn't map on well to that at all.                     The government ­­ the cases that the       government cites that supposedly apply, Holte and       Gebardi to ­­ to Hobbs Act prosecutions really dealt         with aiding and abetting, not with conspiracy. And it's          much easier to see how the active participant standard         applies in the context of aiding and abetting, which         requires acts beyond mere agreement.                 But in the context of conspiracy, the only        court really to have applied the active participant        Alderson Reporting Company Official standard to conspiracy in any, in any significant way         was the Fourth Circuit in the Spitler decision.                    JUSTICE BREYER: Will you, in your answer,        get to what I think is the main point; the main point             being, look, two policemen and a shop owner. The           policemen say, give us money and we'll help you out          later. That's extortion. All right.                   If that's extortion, then why isn't it       conspiracy when, three weeks before they meet and bit by          bit say, we will do that very thing which is          extortion ­­                         MR. DAVIS: I think ­­      JUSTICE BREYER: ­­ the shopkeeper is       helping the policemen do what is the thing that counts          as extortion and, therefore, he's conspired with them.        That's their very simple argument. A simple answer is?                       MR. DAVIS: The simple answer is that's not         consistent with how ­­ with ordinary English, Your        Honor. When two people ­­ when the repair shop owners           go to the public official and say, I'd like to help you            obtain property from another ­­                JUSTICE BREYER: Yes. The "other" ­­       "another" means another other than the two policemen.                    MR. DAVIS: Only if ­­                 JUSTICE BREYER: That's ­­ that's what this        Alderson Reporting Company Official other case says. And the law says that it's another ­­           another other than them.                MR. DAVIS: I think the only way the          government can make that sound plausible is by adding         words to the statute ­­                JUSTICE BREYER: No, no, no words. Another.         Another. Joe and Bill are the policemen; Sam is the           shopkeeper. In the substantive crime, the other,        another, means not the two policemen; it means Sam. And           Sam, two weeks earlier, helped and conspired with the         two policemen to get money from another; namely, Sam.                                             MR. DAVIS: And ­­    JUSTICE BREYER: Odd, but English.      MR. DAVIS: Justice Breyer, I think the         words "namely Sam" are doing all the work there. If you            cut out the words "namely Sam," all of a sudden it            doesn't make sense anymore. If he goes to the police           officers and says, let me help you obtain property from          another, you need to add words to the statute in order           for that to make sense.                 JUSTICE KAGAN: Mr. Davis, I don't think you          need to add words. What you need is to shift           perspective. There is a difference here, but that's the           difference, that the government is insisting that you        look at it from the perspective of the person who, in           Alderson Reporting Company Official this case, is doing the acts of obtaining property from          another. And you are insisting that it be looked at           from the perspective of the person who has agreed to          help him do that.                But there's no reason under standard      conspiracy law that we would use the perspective of the          agreer rather than the perspective of the perpetrator.                    MR. DAVIS: Justice Kagan, with respect, I        don't agree with that. I think that under standard           conspiracy law, you look at the perspective of both.         You have to have a unity of purpose with each           conspirator to do the same thing.                  JUSTICE KAGAN: There absolutely is a unity         of purpose, that one person should do the crime.                                             MR. DAVIS: Your Honor ­­     CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Go ahead.      MR. DAVIS: With the unity of ­­ there         may ­­ that obscures the words "from another" from the          statute. There may be a unity of purpose that they all             do something, but it begs the question about whether the          something that they're doing violates every element of        the offense.                                      CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, counsel.       The case is submitted.    (Whereupon, at : a.m., the case in the        Alderson Reporting Company Official above­entitled matter was submitted.)     Alderson Reporting Company A a.m : : : abetting :,, : :,, : :, : : : : : : : actual : add : : : :, able : above­entitled : adding : addition : additional : address : absence : absolutely : Abuelhawa : accident : accomplish : account : accurate : acknowledge : addressed : admissible : admit :, admitted : adopt : : advancing : acquiescence : affect : : : : : acquiesces : acquiescing : act :, : : afraid : agency : aggravated : Official Official: :, : :,, : :, :, agreements :, agreer : agrees :, : : : ahead : : aiding :,,, :,, : :, aim : aimed : aiming : Alito :,, :, : : :,, alleged : ALLON : : : Page  area : argue : argument : : based : : base : : :, :, : : :, : : : basic : : : : : basically : : : : : :,, : : : : began : : :, :, :, : : basis : : bearing : begs : : behalf :, : :, : : : : bench : best : : beyond : : arrange : arranges : asked : asking : : big : Assistant : assume : : Bill : : bigger : arguments : : : billion­plus : bills : bit :, body : :,, : bounds : Breyer : : :, :, : :,, :, : :,,,, : :,, : :, :, :, :, :, : bribe : : : : : :,, : : :,, : :, : :,, : : :, : : : : : bribery :,, : allow : alternative : AMERICA : answer : : agree : :, : :,, :,, : :,, : : : : : : : :, :, :,, : :,, : : : : : : : agreed : :, : : : : :,, : : : : :, : : : : answering : :, : : : : : : : anybody : : anymore : anytime : appeal : : : assuming : asterisk : : attach : attack : : : : attempt :, attempted : :,, attributable : authority :, automobiles : :, appeals : : APPEARANCES : appendix : : applied : applies : : : avoid : aware : : awful : B b : : back : :, : : : :,, : : acted : action : active : : :,, : : : : : : : : :,, : agreeing :, : : : :, :, :, : :, :, :, : : : : : : : agreement :, :,,, actively : : : : :, : : acts : : :, : : :, : : :, :, : :, : : background : apply :, : bad :, : bank : : :,, : : : : :, :, approach : : bare : : Alderson Reporting Company Alderson Reporting Company Official : : : : : :, : cite :, : : : cited : : cases : : : : : cites : citizen : : : : : :, : : : : : : : City : : cashier : category : : : central : cert : certain : certainly : : : certiorari : challenge : clear : : : :, : clearly : clever : client : : closely : : closing : co­conspirator : : : :, co­conspirators : : : challenged : : challenges : challenging : charge : : coded : coercive : colleagues : color :, : : : : : : : come : : comes : : : :, : : : : commerce :, : :,, commit :, : charged : : : : : : :, :, :,,, : bribes : : : :, bridge : : brief : : : : :, : : :, briefing : briefs : bring : : brings : broader : : : Brock : : brothers :, :, :, : bucks : business :, C C : : Cal : call : : called : calling :, capable :,, car : :, : careful : : carry : cars :, : : charging : : : check : :, : : :, : :,, : :, :, commitment : commits : committed : case :,, : Chief :, : : :, :, : :,, : : : : committing :, :, :,, : :, Circuit : : : :,, : :,, :, : : : : : : : :, : :, : : : : : :, : circuitous : : : : Circuits : : :, comports : circumstance : conceivable : : : : completed : : : : common : : : : : Page  concerned : concurrently : conduct : Congress : conjunction : : : :, :, :, : : conspirators :, : conspire :, : : : : : : : consent : : :,,,, : : : :,, : conspired : : :,, :, :,, :,,,, considerably : considered : consistent :,, : :, : : : :, : conspiring : conspires : : : : constitutional : : : conspiracies : : : : consult : conspiracy : : contemplates : : : : : contractors :, contradicts : contrast : :, : : contention : :, :, contesting : :, : context : : :,,, :, : : :, :, :,, : : : : :, :, conversation : :,,, : convicted : : : : :,, :, conviction : : :,, : :,,, convictions :, cooperating : :,, : : :,, corporation : : :, :,,,, : :,, : :, : : correct : : :, : : : : : : : : : : : : conspirator : : : : :,, : : : : conspiratorial correctly : cosmetologist : cough : counsel : Alderson Reporting Company Official : difficult :, direction : directly : : : :,,, : :, :, : :, : direct : :,,, :, :, : :, : : : disagree : : : :, : :, : dispute : :,, : dissented : :, :, distinction : distinctions : :,,, distinguish : : : : distinguishable : :,, : :,, :, :, :,,, distinguishing :,, : : : : count :, country : : counts : : couple : : course : : : : court :, : :, : : : :, :, : : : : : : :, :, :, : :,, Court's : : : : cover : create : crime : : day : deal : : deals : dealt : : decided : : decision : : : : : : : : : :, : :, : : :, : : : defendant's : :,, : : defendant : : defined : definitely : delay : : : :, delayed : district :, division : doctrine : doing : : : : : : : doubling : dozen : dramatic : drive : drug :, durable : crimes : : criminal :, criticism : cross : customer : : :,, : customer's : customers : cut : D D : D.C :, damage : Davis : :, :,, :,, delays : demand : : demanding : Department : designed : desirable : despite : developers : difference : E E : :, earlier : easier : : effect : either : : element :,, :, : : : : : : : : : :, elements : :, : : : : : different : : : : : : :, emphasize : enclosing : encompasses : English : : : : : : enterprise : entitled : envelope : error : : :, ESQ :, :, : establish : established :, ETHAN : :, : : Evans : : : :, : :, :, : : : : evidence :,, :, : : :,, : : :,, : Page  : : :, :, :, : :, :, :, : :,, : extra :, F facilitate : facilitated : facilitates : facilitating : facilitation : fact : :,, :, : : : factors : failure : fair :, falls : far : : fear : feature : exactly : : example : : Federal : :, : :, : : : : : : : exchange : : exist : expand : expansion : expecting :, expedite : explain : explained : extend :, : : extent : : :, extort : extortion :, : : : :,,,, :,,,,, :,,, : : : : federalizing : Fifth : figure : find : : : : first : : : : : : : : : fix : focus : focused : : follow : follow­up : footnote : : force : forfeited : Alderson Reporting Company Official form : : given : :, guilty : : : formalistic : formed : : forming : forms : : four : Fourth : : : : : : : :, gives :, : : : :, giving : : gloss : : go : : : Francisco : fraud : freestanding : goal : friend : : goes : : : : :, : gun :,, :, :, : gunmen : guy : H hand : hang : happen : : : :, : : : : : friend's : : : : full : funds : : funny : further : : : : : G G : gap : Gebardi : : :,, : general : : :,, : :, :, : : : :, : : : half : : : : going : : happened : happiness : : :,, : : : hard : : harmless : : : : :, good : he'll : government : head : : : : : hear : :, : heard : :, : heavy : : :, : : : held : : :,, :, help : :, government's : : :, : : helped : : governments : grammatically : : : : : : helping : : herring : : : : : : : high­water : : : higher : historical : hitting : Hobbs :, : :, :,, :,,, : : : : : : : :,, : : : : : : : :, Griffin : : : Holt : Holte : : :, : Honor : :, : : : : :, :, : : : : :, : :, :, : :,, : : :,, : : : : : : : Honors : hoping : hub : hub­and­spokes : hypothetical :, : I identical :, idol : illegal : illegality : illustrate : imagine : : : : imagining : immoral : : important : impose : incapable : incidental : included : including : incorrect : increasing : indicted : : : : indictment : Page  indistinguishable : individual : individuals : induced : information : inherent : innocent : inquiry : insisting : : instance : : : : : : :, instances : : : : instructed : : instruction : : : : instructions : :, :, :, : :,, instruments : insufficient :, : insurance : : intend : :, : : intended : : interest : interested : interpretation : : : :, : interpreting : interstate : involved :, involvement : involving : : isolated : issue :, : : : : generally : : grapple : : gray : getting : : great : gifts : Ginsburg : : :, :,,, ground :,, give : :, : : : grounds : : : : :, guess : : : : : : : : guilt : holding : : : : Alderson Reporting Company Official : : : : key : kickback :, kickbacks : kill : :,,,,, :, : : :,, : :,, : :,, :,, : :,,,, kind : : :,,,, know : : :,,, :, :,, :,, : : :,, knowledge : : :,, Kotteakos : : :,, : : : : : : : : : : L labor : language : :, : : :, :, K Kagan :,,, : : : :, : : : :, :,,, : Laughter : : : : : : law : :, large : : Page  : limited : lines :, : : : meaning : means : : : : : :, linking :, little : : LLC : : local : logic : : Mejia :,, logical : long : look : : meet : : meeting : :, :, :, : : : : : : : : : : : member : : : members : : : mere : : : merely : : merits : mind :, : : : : : : looked : looking : lost : lot : love : :, lovely : lucrative : M main :, : : : J jargon : Joe : John :,, joint : : jointly : joy : judge : :, : judged :, jurisprudence : juror : jury :,, : :,, : :, :,, : :, :, :, : Justice : :, : :,,, : :,,, :,,,, :,, : :, :, :,, : : :,, :, : : :,, :,, :, :,,,, :,, : :, :, :,,, : : : :,, : : :,, :, :,, :, :, :,, : :,,, :, : :,,,, :,, : :,, : Kagan's : Kedem : : :,, : : :, :,, :, :, :, :,,, : :, :,,,, :,, : :, :, :,, : :,, : :, :, : :, :,, :, : :,, :, :, :, Kennedy :,, : : : : : : :, :, Majestic :,, minds : :,, : minimal : :, :, : :, : : :,,, minutes : :, :, : : : misconduct : : : : majority : : :, making : leads :,, : : model : moment : monetary : money :,, man :,, Mann :,, : : : map : mark : : : :, :,,,, :,, : :, :, : :,, : :, : :,, :,, : : : : mean : : : Moreno :,, :, :, :, : : :, : : : : :, : : : : : :,, : : : :,, : : :, matter : : : : : : legal : legally­invalid : let's : : : : : : liable : : :, license :, lies : light : : limit : : limitations : level : liability : : masterminds : Maryland : Alderson Reporting Company Official :, morning : multifaceted : multiple : : :,, paid :, : :, :, pair : :, : : : : : : :, : : : : :,,, : :, :, : :, :,,,, :,, : : : :, officials : : park : : : : : : part : : Pardon : oh :, : N N :, : narrow : national : : obtained : : okay : : natural : : : : obtaining : : : : : naturally : navigate : necessarily : : : : : : : obtains : : old : once :, : : : necessary : need : : : : :, Ocasio : :, : :,,, : : :, :,, : :, :, order : : :, : :,, : : : : :, :, : : open : opposite : opposition : oral : :, : : : : : : ordinary :, participant : :,,, participate : : :, : :, : participates : : participation : :,,, :, :, : :, : : : :,,, : Page  perpetrator : person : : : : : : : : :,,, : : : : : : : : personally : : perspective : : :, :,,, perspectives : Petitioner :, :, : :, : : : : : : : :, : :, Petitioner's :, :,, : : : : : philanthropists : phrase :, : : : : phrases : : picky : place : plain : : plan : : needs : network : never :, : : : : New : nonlawyer : normal : normally : notable : notice : number : numbers : numerous : O O : : o'clock : objection : obscures : obscuring : obstruct : obstructed : obstructs : obtain :,, occasion : October : odd : : : offense :,, : : : particular : : : : : organization : organizer : outlines : : partnership : party :, passed : pay : : : : :, outside :, : :, : : :, : : : :,, : : :,, :, : : :,, : overwhelmingly : : : : : overlay : overt : overwhelming : payment :, payments : : : paying : : pays : : officer : : : :, : : officers : : :,, : : :, :,, : : :, : official : : :, : owner : : owners :, : : :,,, : : : : :, : P P : :, :, : page : :, : : : : people : : :, :, : : : : : : play : :, : :, : : :, plausible : : : : please : : percent : perfectly : performing : permissible : permitting : : pled : plenty : pocket : pockets : Alderson Reporting Company Official Page  point : :, probably : : : : : Q put : : : : : problem : : pursued : : : : : : : pushing : : :, : :, :, : : : :, : :, :, profession : prohibited : promised : property :, :,, : :,,,, : : : : : : : :,,, questions : : :, :, :,, :, : : :, : : : question : : : : : :, : : : quid : quite : : quo : : : pointed : pointing : police : : :,,, : : : : : :, :, : policeman : :, :, policemen :, :,,, : :, portion : posit : position : : possible : : practical : : practice : precise : precisely : prejudice : premise : prepared : present : presented : presumption : pretend : : prevail : prevents : principle :, : : principles : : private : : :, pro : proposed : proposition : : proprietorship : proprietorship­o... : prosecute : : prosecution : prosecutions : : prosecutor : prosecutors : prove : provides : provision : public : : : : : :,, : pull : punishes : : :, purchase : purchaser : purpose :, : :,,, : :,, purposes : : R R : raise : : : : raised :, : raising : ran : range : : : reach : : read : : reading : real : : : really : :, : : : : :, : : : : : : : reason : : : : : : : reasons : rebuttal : : : recall : receipt : : : : receive : receives : : responses : record : : recruit : recruited :, red : redefining : refer : : restitution : result : : : : : return : : : referral : refers :, reflect : regard : : : reinforces : relation : relationship : relied : : : reluctantly : remaining : remand : remembering : render : repair : : : : : : : : : request : requested : require : required : : requirement : : : : requires : : : :, : :, reserve : resolves : respect : : : : : Respondent : : : response : : returned : reversed : revert : right : : : :, :, : :, : : : : : :, :, : :,, : : :, : : : : : : : :, : rim : robber : robbers : robbery : : :,,, robbing : ROBERTS : : : : : : : :,, : : : : : :, : :, Rodriguez : : role : roles :, route : rule : : ruling : run : Alderson Reporting Company Page  : suggest : suggests : suppose : States' : statute :, : :,,, :, :, : :,, : :, : : : Supreme :, :, : sure : : : :,, : :, : supposed : supposedly : : Susan :,, Sutton : sweeten : syntactical :, statutes : statutory : : steal : step :, stone : stop : stops : straight : : stranger : structure : stuck : subject : : submitted : : Subsection : :,, substantive :, :, :, : : : : :, :, :, :, : : : : : : : : T T :, take : : : : : takes :, talk : : : : talked :,, talking : : : : : : talks : : targeted : tell : : terrorist : test : testimony :, : text : textual : : : :, : :, S S : : sale : Salinas : : : Sam :,,, :, SAMUEL : San : satisfied : satisfy : : saying : : : : : : : says : : : : : : : : : : :, :,, : :, : :,, seeks : sense :, : : : : : :, sentence : sentences : separate :,, : : set : settled : shift : shifting : shoot : shop : :, :,,,, : : : : : : : :, shopkeeper : : show : : showed : : showered : showering : showers : shows :, side :, : Scalia :,, : :,, : : : : :,, :, : :,,, : : : :,,,,, : :,, significant : :,,, : similar : similarly :, simple :,, simply : : scared : scenario : scene : : scheme : : : : school : scope : second : : : :, : secret : section : see : : : : : : : :, :, : : single : situation : : : :,, : : : situations : Sixth : Skilling : :, skills : slightly : small : Official Smith :, sole : : solely : Solicitor : somebody : :,,,, : : : : sort : : : Sotomayor :, :, :, : : : :, : :,, : : sound : : : special : specific : : : : : specifically : : : : : spillover : Spitler : spokes : : stage :, standard : :,, : :,,, : :, start : started : : : : State : :, :, : : :, : : : stated : : : States :,, : : :, : : : : : Thank : : : : subsumes : succeeded : sudden : : theory : :, suffice : sufficiency : : :,, : : : :, : : : : thing : :, sufficient : : :, : : :, : things : : Alderson Reporting Company Official : want : : : : Page  unclear : understand : : : wanted :, : : : wants :, : :, : : worked : : : works : : : : world : : undifferentiated Washington :, worry : : warranted : : wasn't : : worse : unimportant : : : United :,, : water : wouldn't : wrecked : : : :, : : : : : unity :, : :, :, :, way : : : wrong : : :, :, wrongful : :, : : : : : : : : : x :, X transported : transporting : :,,,, : : : :, : :, traffic : transaction : transport :,, : :, : :, trial : : :,,, : transportation : :, think :,, : : :,,, :,, :, :,, : :,, : :,, : :, :, :,, : :,,, :, :, : :, : :, :,,,, :, :, :, :, : :,, : : : :,, : :, :, true : : :, :, :,,, :, : :,,, : :, : :,, : :, : :, :, : : thinking : thinks : third :, thought :, tried : trouble : : : : Tuesday : turn :, : two : : : : threatened : three : : threshold : : unlawful : unnecessary : we'll : : unusual : ways : : we're : :, : : : use : : : : : : :, try : trying : : uses : : V :, : : : : : : : we've : : : v : : : : wedge : : vacate : various : : : weeks : : went : : : : : : :, vast : : :,, : : : : : : : : :, : : : :, :, : venture : verb : verdict : : victim :, :, : victim's : victims :,, wondered : women : Y year : years : : York : Z : , : : : : : : : ­ : : willingly : woman :,, :,,,, :,,,,,, : :,,,, :, : : : : :, : : : : : word : : :, : words : : : : : : : : : :, : : : : : : :,,, : :, : a : : violate : violates : : type : : thresholds : thrust : ticket : tickets : time : : told :, top : town : traditionally : U.S.C : : U U.S : types : typical : : violation :, typically : violence : voluminous : voluntarily : W work : : : : : : Alderson Reporting Company Official Page  : . : : , : : : : : : :, : : : Alderson Reporting Company 