Official        IN THE SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES        ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ x                                  JOHN STURGEON,                      :             Petitioner                : No. ­         v.                          BERT FROST, IN HIS OFFICIAL            CAPACITY AS ALASKA REGIONAL           DIRECTOR OF THE NATIONAL              PARK SERVICE, ET AL.                  : : : : : ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ x                                                         Washington, D.C.                         Wednesday, January ,                  The above­entitled matter came on for oral       argument before the Supreme Court of the United States         at : a.m.   APPEARANCES: MATTHEW T. FINDLEY, ESQ., Anchorage, Alaska; on behalf           of Petitioner.  RUTH BOTSTEIN, ESQ., Assistant Attorney General,         Anchorage, Alaska; for Alaska, as amicus curiae,          supporting Petitioner.  RACHEL P. KOVNER, ESQ., Assistant to the Solicitor              General, Department of Justice, Washington, D.C.; on       behalf of Respondents.   Alderson Reporting Company Official                                    C O N T E N T S ORAL ARGUMENT OF                                      PAGE MATTHEW T. FINDLEY, ESQ.       On behalf of the Petitioner                            ORAL ARGUMENT OF   RUTH BOTSTEIN, ESQ.         For Alaska, as amicus curiae,     supporting the Petitioner                            ORAL ARGUMENT OF   RACHEL P. KOVNER, ESQ.       On behalf of the Respondents                           REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF   MATTHEW T. FINDLEY, ESQ.       On behalf of the Petitioner                            Alderson Reporting Company Official                                       P R O C E E D I N G S                                            (: a.m.)              CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: We'll hear argument       next in Case ­, Sturgeon v. Frost.                   Mr. Findley.             ORAL ARGUMENT OF MATTHEW T. FINDLEY                     ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONER                 MR. FINDLEY: Thank you, Mr. Chief Justice,        and may it please the Court:                  ANILCA was the result of a grand bargain.         Congress enacted ANILCA to finally resolve land       ownership in Alaska, a process that began with the          Statehood Act and continued with the Native Claims        Settlement Act, both statutes that granted land to the         State and native corporations to further economic       development and self­sufficiency for Alaska and its       people.             ANILCA very carefully balanced conservation     with those important goals.                JUSTICE KAGAN: Mr. ­­ Mr. Findley, can I          ask two quick clarifying questions just so I understand          what's at issue here?                Your argument applies to the navigable      rivers generally; is that right? In other words, to the           navigable rivers running through the federally owned       Alderson Reporting Company Official land as well as to those running through the inholdings?                      MR. FINDLEY: If a navigable river is         surrounded by the outer boundaries of the park, yes,         that's covered by Section (c).                 JUSTICE KAGAN: And is there any information        in the record about whether your client actually was         running his boat on the portions which were ­­ are          within the federally owned parts, or instead it's the         inholdings?                                                 Is that what you called them?      MR. FINDLEY: That is one word for it.         JUSTICE KAGAN: Yes.    MR. FINDLEY: He was within the shore. On          either side of where his hovercraft was stopped was         Federal public land.                                                                                       question.                         JUSTICE KAGAN: Was Federal ­­     MR. FINDLEY: Yes.    JUSTICE KAGAN: Was Federal public land?       MR. FINDLEY: Yes, exactly.     JUSTICE KAGAN: Okay. Thank you.       MR. FINDLEY: Oh, sure.     JUSTICE KENNEDY: Just, again, a preliminary        MR. FINDLEY: Sure.    JUSTICE KENNEDY: Is it conceded by all or         Alderson Reporting Company Official is it not that this is navigable ­­ that these are           navigable waters?              MR. FINDLEY: Yes. And the Ninth Circuit         issued decision in called Alaska v. United States         by Judge Kleinfeld which adjudicated the Nation River        navigable.             JUSTICE KENNEDY: And that's not contested       here?             MR. FINDLEY: No, it is not contested here.                     JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: So you're claiming a       right not merely to use the hovercraft in the nonpublic          lands. You're claiming that there's no residual right         to control navigable waters in the Federal lands area?                     MR. FINDLEY: What Mr. Sturgeon is       arguing ­­ we've been very specific about that ­­ is          that the Park Service does not have authority to issue          its Park Management Regulations to cover State navigable        waters that run through these ANILCA parks.                   JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: So what do you do about         the ANILCA provision that says that boating and other         water activities within public lands, within Federal       public lands can be regulated?                 MR. FINDLEY: Yes. And those apply to all          kinds of waters that are not navigable. Those apply to           Federal waters and those ­­    Alderson Reporting Company Official             JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: That's not what it says.        It says any waters in the jurisdiction of the United          States.             MR. FINDLEY: It doesn't say navigable       waters. And there is ­­                 JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Well, it could apply to        both, is what I'm saying. What says it excludes          navigable waters?              MR. FINDLEY: You turn back to the        definition of public lands in the statute, which makes         clear for anything to be public lands, the United States          must hold title.               And there really is no dispute. The United         States does not hold title to the submerged lands or the           navigable waters. So those navigable waters, they        aren't public lands.               Section (c) makes crystal clear they're      not part of the park and they are not subject to           regulations solely enacted to manage our claim.                   CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: I wasn't sure, but         I ­­ I thought maybe they were suggesting that the           navigational servitude and its reserved rights were ­­       were title.              MR. FINDLEY: They are not title interests.        They are both nonpossessory use rights. Even the Ninth          Alderson Reporting Company Official Circuit made crystal clear that the navigationable       servitude is not something the United States owns. And          the Submerged Lands Act itself disavows an actual title         of proprietary interest pursuant to the navigational       servitude. Reserved water rights, it had the same         answer: They're a nonpossessory use right.                    JUSTICE SCALIA: So it ­­ it ­­ it may well           be, you think, that the Federal government would have         authority to do this in the exercise of its navigational          servitude even though it doesn't have authority to do         it, as you assert, under the Park Service?                    MR. FINDLEY: Our objection is to the Park         Service asserting its regulation on these navigable       waters. Our position is Congress expressly denied this         authority to the Park Service in (c).                   JUSTICE SCALIA: Okay. Do ­­ do we have to           resolve the further question? Whether if the Park         Service can't do it somebody else can do it?                     MR. FINDLEY: You don't have to resolve that         further question. I mean, ANILCA makes crystal clear          that Federal government is not bereft of authority over         navigable waters. The EPA has authority, Corps of         Engineer has authority.               The specific issue here was you ­­ you had         pockets of land that were about to be surrounded by          Alderson Reporting Company Official these new ANILCA CSUs. Those included State navigable         waters, and that included over percent of the native          corporation land selections under the Native Corporation       Settlement Act.              The concern was whoa, if you're about to        surround us with these parks, we don't want to be part           of the parks and we don't want to be subject to park            regulation. The idea was if you weren't part of the           park, you weren't subject to park regulation the day         before ANILCA was enacted, and that status quo carries         through after ANILCA was enacted.                 JUSTICE KENNEDY: Suppose you have a       regulation or a statute that's applicable to all United          States parks. Is it applicable here?                   MR. FINDLEY: If it's a regulation that the          Park Service ­­              JUSTICE KENNEDY: No, let's say ­­ let's say         first it's a statute, suppose a Federal statute. So you             need a permit for a fire in a Federal park. Applicable               or ­­ or ­­ or not?                  MR. FINDLEY: You have to look at whether         this is a regulation that was solely enacted to manage           park land. The hovercraft regulation we have here, it's          crystal clear. That's exactly that type of regulation         where the Park Service made a judgment call about what           Alderson Reporting Company Official it believed was appropriate or not appropriate to occur         on public land.               If the Park Service ­­ this is a Park          Service regulation issued under the Organic Act and you         read this code of Federal regulations and the Park         Service is saying, we want fires here on public lands;          we want fires here not on public lands. That's the type            of regulation Section (c) is talking about.                   If the EPA says, look, we're concerned about        Clean Air Act emissions from fire smoke and we are going           to issue a generally applicable regulation across the         United States on when you can burn wood and when you           can't, that is not the type of regulation that         Section (c) reaches.               JUSTICE ALITO: What was the basis for the         Ninth Circuit's decision? Was it limited to navigable         waters?             MR. FINDLEY: The Ninth Circuit did not        reach the unnavigable waters issues at all.                   JUSTICE ALITO: What was the basis for the         decision?             MR. FINDLEY: The Ninth Circuit took a very          strained, improper reading of the statute and looked at         Section (c) and said, well, it only applies to         Alaska­specific regulations. And it was a reading that          Alderson Reporting Company Official reads the statute out of context. It's contrary to the           text and leads to an incredibly absurd result that,         frankly, no ­­ there's evidence Congress thought this is         what was going to happen was that these islands of          non­Federal land that were excluded from the parks,        under the Ninth Circuit's ruling, they cannot take        advantage of all of the rules in Alaska that Congress          specifically loosened for Alaska parks. You can camp in          Alaska parks. You can hunt. You can fish. You can use              snow machines. You can fly. The list goes on and on.             Right?             Under the Ninth Circuit ruling, those      relaxed rules, they don't apply to the non­Federal land.         Instead, that non­Federal land is subject to the more         restrictive nationwide rules that were not promulgated       to be tailored to Alaska. And that simply makes no           sense.             JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Your reading on a       practical basis with respect to the navigable waters        makes almost no sense to me.                  I'm looking at a map attached to the         petition of the State of Alaska. It's attached to the           end of the brief. And it seems like these national           parks are spread along the coast of Alaska in a          haphazard way, meaning the national parks have       Alderson Reporting Company Official jurisdiction over a small strip along the coast of          Alaska.             Presumably you're not arguing that this      agreement controls the U.S. servitude of navigable       waters around those strips.                MR. FINDLEY: We're not claiming that       Section (c) trumps the navigable ­­ navigational       servitude. What we're claiming is ANILCA makes crystal         clear for submerged lands and navigable waters owned by         the State, they aren't public lands; they aren't part of          the park.              JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: So you're saying that       the U.S. can't control the navigable servitude in any         part of that coast.                                        MR. FINDLEY: No. The United States can.         JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Can.    MR. FINDLEY: The Park Service hasn't been        delegated that authority. It was expressly denied that         authority by Section (c).                JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: And so what do you take         the words in ­­ in (c) to mean, the boating          exception, when it says "in the jurisdiction of the         United States"? "Waters in the jurisdiction"?                   You don't think navigable waters are within       the jurisdiction of the United States in Federal lands?         Alderson Reporting Company Official             MR. FINDLEY: That's within the regulation       that the Park Service promulgated nationwide, saying       we're going in ­­ the hovercraft is one of many          regulations that they assert to apply within the        jurisdiction of the Park Service.                 Section (c), which is the ­­ which is the         specific park­enabling statute, denied the Park Service       jurisdiction over nonpublic land which includes these       navigable waters.              CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: So if the ­­ as it          often does elsewhere, if the Army Corps of Engineers         have issues with respect to things that the State is          doing on the navigable waters or, you know, other people          are building a ­­ a ­­ a damn or a fish ­­ I forget what                    they are called ­­ the Corps of Engineers can come in           and say, you can't do that.                  MR. FINDLEY: Exactly. Under whatever its        authorities are. I mean ­­ and that's exactly what           ANILCA was meant to remain unaffected by the law was          those generally applicable rights that ­­                 JUSTICE SCALIA: Let's ­­ and EPA might ­­        might be able to prohibit boating, no?                   MR. FINDLEY: Whether the EPA ­­                  JUSTICE SCALIA: Or environmental ­­                 MR. FINDLEY: ­­ can prohibit boating, that        Alderson Reporting Company Official may be an extension of their authority. But certainly.          It's ­­ Coast Guard has authority, EPA, Corps of         Engineers. There's a laundry list of Federal agencies          that have plenty of authority here.                  The question is the Park Service can't throw        its hat in the ring and in addition apply its park           regulations on top of everything else.                  JUSTICE BREYER: But it says in the        regulation ­­ look at the regulation. It says, "The          Hovercraft Regulation applies to waters subject to the        jurisdiction of the United States." This is water         subject to the jurisdiction. "Within the boundaries of         the National Park Service" ­­ that's the tougher part ­­         "including navigable waters." That doesn't help us.                    So the question, I would think, would be is          this portion of the river within the boundaries of the          National Park Service? Am I right so far?                      MR. FINDLEY: It is within the outer       boundaries of the park. It is not part of the park            pursuant to ­­              JUSTICE BREYER: Well, now, you look at what         they say about that, and you get, when they're defining          the Yukon­Charley River's National Preserve, it says       that that national preserve ­­ which is the whole thing,          which includes the section of the river that we're         Alderson Reporting Company Official talking about ­­ contains public lands. It doesn't say          it's identical with the public lands.                  And then in another place it says, "Only        those lands within the portion which are public lands         shall be deemed to be included a portion of such unit,"            not that they make up the whole of such unit.                                  At least we ­­   JUSTICE SCALIA: What are ­­ what are you         quoting from? I'm ­­                JUSTICE BREYER: I'm quoting from      regulations which are U.S.C. ­­ I don't know.          I'll ­­ I'll have to show you later, because I'm          quoting ­­             (Laughter.)             JUSTICE BREYER: We're going to get into        numbers, and I ­­ I just thought this case is too             complicated to ask anything, but you've tempted me.                    (Laughter.)             JUSTICE BREYER: And so ­­ so you see ­­         have you got in your mind what I just quoted?                       MR. FINDLEY: Yes.                JUSTICE BREYER: And then once you have        that, you have this regulation applying to this portion         of the river.               So now we look to the statute to see if          Alderson Reporting Company Official anything there takes away what the regulations seem to         give. And the only part of the statute ­­ though it's            an important part ­­ that supports you is the second          sentence. But as I read that second sentence, it says            that, "The regulations that apply solely to public lands         within such units," you see, "are the ones that don't          apply to the private land up in Yukon­Charley.                    But I've just read you a regulation, which,         on my reading of it, is the Hovercraft Regulation, and          does not apply solely to public lands within National         Park Service units, either in Alaska or anywhere else.         And therefore, the statute doesn't stop it.                   Now, that's ­­ that's ­­ and I want to ­­ I            don't know if I can do this orally; I just tried to,              which is to put the argument against you as best I           could, and I want to hear the reply.                     MR. FINDLEY: Yes, Your Honor. Thank you.         And you know, this is ­­ and the government makes the           same argument in its briefing here.                  JUSTICE BREYER: Yes.                MR. FINDLEY: And ­­ and this is a dispute           that's why ­­ it's what has brought us together here          today.             JUSTICE BREYER: Uh­huh.                MR. FINDLEY: But prior to , the Park         Alderson Reporting Company Official Service did not apply this regulation to navigable        waters. That was a change they made in , and that's             in C.F.R. .(b) where they say now we're going to           apply this to navigable waters without regard to        ownership of the submerged lands. And that is what          Mr. Sturgeon is objecting to.                                                     The whole point was (c) says ­­      JUSTICE KAGAN: Well, Mr. Findley, I mean ­­         MR. FINDLEY: ­­ you can't do that.        JUSTICE KAGAN: ­­ whether or not that's        true, agencies can change their mind about things. And          I think that the question that Justice Breyer is putting          to you is this question about what this provision means:          "Shall be subject to the regulations applicable solely        to public lands."                 I mean, "solely" is a very purposive word,        you know? I mean, Congress drops lots of words, but you             put "solely" in a sentence when you mean "solely." And            this does not apply solely to public lands.                    MR. FINDLEY: Because the regulation never       should have been allowed to reach out to the public          land. That is our objection here. The Hovercraft          Regulation, as promulgated in , was a regulation         promulgated solely to manage park land.                  What (c) says, it was a permanent barrier         Alderson Reporting Company Official to take in that regulation and extending it out to          nonpublic land. The fact that they did it in , and            the fact that they've gotten away with it for over           years, does not suddenly make the regulation ­­                   JUSTICE KENNEDY: I ­­ I don't understand          why the statute that Justice Breyer is focusing on, that          part of the statute. Applies just to park regulations          and not to something from the EPA or the Federal          Aeronautics Administration. Federal Aeronautics     Administration says you can't have a smoke stack more          than feet high.                            Why ­­ why doesn't that apply?      MR. FINDLEY: Because that would not be a         regulation solely enacted to manage park land. You ask          about the word "solely." The reason that it's there, if          you were to take a ­­                  JUSTICE KENNEDY: But it ­­ it ­­ it ­­ but           it ­­ it talks about regulations applicable solely to         public lands. But is ­­ is ­­ is that all Forest            Service regulations? Are you saying that that's a ­­          the same as Forest Service regulations? Is that what          you're saying?              MR. FINDLEY: Forest Service regulations are       also solely enacted to manage those public lands.                    To answer your question, if you take the        Alderson Reporting Company Official word "solely" out of the statute, you've inadvertently        created a statute which says none of these private lands           within the ANILCA parks are subject to any regulations         applicable to public lands.                Now surely, Congress is not trying to exempt        these lands from Clean Water Act, Clean Air Act ­­                                 JUSTICE KAGAN: Maybe ­­    MR. FINDLEY: That's what the word "solely"        is there to do.                JUSTICE KAGAN: I guess maybe ­­ maybe you          can explain that to me. But it seems to me that if you              took it out of the statute, what you would have was to            something that says no private lands shall be subject to          the regulations applicable to public lands. And that's         what you should want.                If ­­ if it had said that, no private lands          shall be subject to the regulations applicable to public         lands, you wouldn't be here. You would have won your           case already. But it doesn't say that. It says, "No            private lands shall be subject to the regulations        applicable solely" ­­ exclusively, only ­­ "to public        lands."             MR. FINDLEY: Right. And again, though,        however, you take out the word "solely," not only, I          suppose, will Mr. Sturgeon win, but you have a lot of            Alderson Reporting Company Official in­holding owners that would be happy to know they're         not subject to the Clean Water Act, the Clean Air Act,           the Voting Rights Act, or anything else. I mean, that's            what that word is there to do. If there's any doubt            about that, then I think the Senate report makes           that ­­             JUSTICE KAGAN: So you're saying that the        word "solely" distinguishes between statutes like the       Clean Air Act and park land statutes?                   MR. FINDLEY: Yes. Absolutely. That's        what's there to draw that line in the sand.                     JUSTICE KAGAN: Because I understand why        Congress might have wanted to distinguish between, like,        the Clean Air Act and park statutes. But putting the           word "solely" in, I got to say, does not do that for me.                          MR. FINDLEY: It may not have been the         perfect way for Congress to go about and do it, but           that's ­­             way.             JUSTICE KAGAN: Well, tell me the imperfect        MR. FINDLEY: Well, "solely."                 (Laughter.)             JUSTICE KAGAN: Well, no. How does that do          that? No, seriously. How does that distinguish between          two different kinds of generally­applicable statutes,      Alderson Reporting Company Official one generally applicable in applying to park lands and         not park lands, and another generally applicable in the         sense of applying to both public and private lands         within parks.              MR. FINDLEY: Read that sentence in context        with both the first sentence of Section (c) and the          third sentence, and then read it in context with the          purpose of the statute.                The first sentence says these lands are not        part of the park.                The second sentence is doing its best to        make clear these lands won't be regulated as though they          were.             And the third sentence makes clear that if        the Federal government ­­ or the Park Service, excuse         me ­­ wants to regulate these lands, wants them to be           part of the park, they have to go out and acquire them.            There wouldn't be any purpose for that third sentence if          the Federal government ­­ or, excuse me ­­ the Park          Service already had authority of those nonpublic lands.                    And if you take a step back and you look at            the overall purpose of the statute ­­ and again (d)          of the statute makes clear that this is a balancing           statute. This is not just a conservation statute. So            right in context, that's that ­­ what that line "solely"          Alderson Reporting Company Official is trying to draw on ­­ draw on.                    Again, I would direct you to, if ­­ if          there's any doubt, look at the Senate report, makes          crystal clear about what regulations were meant to be         affected by this and which were not.                   If there are ­­ aren't any further       questions, I'd like to reserve the remainder of my time.                      CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, counsel.                   MR. FINDLEY: Thank you.                 CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Miss Botstein.                   ORAL ARGUMENT OF RUTH BOTSTEIN,                   AS AMICUS CURIAE FOR ALASKA,                     SUPPORTING THE PETITIONER               MS. BOTSTEIN: Thank you, Mr. Chief Justice,       and may it please the Court:                  This case is about honoring Congress's      mandate to protect Alaska's sovereignty in the face of         the Park Service's rapidly­expanding interpretation of      its own jurisdiction under ANILCA.                 Congress provided in ANILCA that Alaska      would lose over million acres of land. But at the            same time, Congress provided concrete protection against       further encroachments on the lands and waters that        Alaska did retain. This Court should reject the Park          Service's attempt to redefine the Federal/State balance       Alderson Reporting Company Official that Congress chose.               We know from ANILCA that Congress intended       to provide unique management rules for Alaska, and there         are good reasons for that. This was the continuation in           a trilogy of legislation that began with the Alaska         Statehood Act and the Alaska Native Claims Settlement        Act, and this piece of legislation furthered the goals         of those predecessors.               One purpose of the statute was to provide        adequate opportunity for the satisfaction of the       economic and social needs of the State of Alaska and its           people. And Congress explicitly balanced that goal with         conservation goals and the goals of completing the land         selections within the States. And that means that the          National Park Service's authority in other States or in         other parks are not the baseline here. The starting          point is the power that Congress gave to the National          Park Service and other Land Management agencies in        regulating ANILCA parks.               And what Congress did in Section (c) was        to set aside the inholdings of the State, private, and          native corporation lands that might be surrounded by the         parks, but should not be regulated as though they were          in fact part of the parks.                  CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: By "inholdings," you       Alderson Reporting Company Official include the submerged lands that were conveyed to the         State upon statehood?               MS. BOTSTEIN: We do, Your Honor. The         submerged lands and the waters that accompany them.                    CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Right. Now, is        there any basis for distinguishing the submerged lands        from the ­­ I don't know what to call it ­­ from the              land land that are in the other inholdings or do you           understand the government's argument to be that they are         treated the same?               MS. BOTSTEIN: I understand the Park        Service's argument to be that the ­­ the submerged ­­         the waters and the submerged lands have somehow become         public lands. I mean, I understand their argument here            to say, well, Section (c) doesn't apply to the waters          because those are, in fact, not Alaska's waters. But          that is completely wrong, Your Honor.                  This Court's cases have held that control       over lands and waters is an unmistakable and central         part of a State sovereignty.                  JUSTICE GINSBURG: What does that do to        Federal right to control, whether it's titled or not,         all navigable waters?               MS. BOTSTEIN: Congress possesses a right to         control the navigational servitude, and that's not an        Alderson Reporting Company Official issue here. Congress hasn't given that and ANILCA         doesn't delegate the authorization to control navigation       to the Park Service as part of Park Service regulation.          And I think even the Park Service isn't asserting that           it has. So that right ­­                  JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Repeat what you said. I         didn't quite hear it or understand it. I'm sorry. Say            it again.              MS. BOTSTEIN: Your Honor, Congress has the        power to control navigation in these waters through        exercise of the navigational servitude. Congress hasn't        given that power to the National Park Service. And I           don't even believe they are asserting that it has. So           that's not what's at issue here.                              Neither has ­­ does ­­    JUSTICE KENNEDY: Well, suppose there were a        Coast Guard regulation that ­­ applicable to all        throughout the United States. Could that be applied to          this river?              MS. BOTSTEIN: Yes, Your Honor. The Coast         Guard has that power ­­                JUSTICE KENNEDY: Well, why is the ­­ so         you're ­­ you're just saying that the Park Service lacks          authority to promulgate this regulation quite without       regard to this statute, which doesn't help me very much.          Alderson Reporting Company Official             MS. BOTSTEIN: No, Your Honor. We're saying         this statute, the enabling legislation of the parks,        sets the ground rules for what authority the National         Park Service has.               JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: So you're not ­­ I'm        sorry. You're not saying that the Coast Guard couldn't          come in and say no hovercrafts around the Alaskan coast.                      MS. BOTSTEIN: The Coast Guard could enact        regulations to regulate navigation in the water. The         River and Harbors Act gives the Coast Guard that         explicit delegation.              JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: How about if they wanted        to say, in this alcove, the Coast Guard, not the Park           Service, says you can't have hovercrafts, that would be         okay?             MS. BOTSTEIN: Yes, Your Honor. The Coast         Guard could do it. We're not ­­                   JUSTICE KAGAN: If I understand what you're         saying, you're saying with respect to a river that's          smack in the middle of federally owned lands, okay, a          river that's in the middle of federally owned lands,         what cannot happen is that the EPA can't come in and say            there's some terrible pollution in this river, and we         need to address it. That would be off limits?                      MS. BOTSTEIN: No, Your Honor. What ­­ a          Alderson Reporting Company Official couple of things there. I mean, first, the ­­ the            waters go with the submerged lands. If the submerged          lands pass to the State of Alaska, then there are some           lands that are going to be State owned together with the           water column itself. And what Section (c) places         limits on is the Park Service's ability to regulate that          in the same fashion it wants to regulate the rest ­­                                              JUSTICE BREYER: Why? I mean ­­        MS. BOTSTEIN: The EPA is separate.       JUSTICE KAGAN: The Coast Guard can do it.         The EPA can do. It's only the Park Service that can't            do it?              MS. BOTSTEIN: Or another Land Management       agency that is regulating ­­ is attempting to regulate         the lands and waters that are not part of the park as            though they were part of the park. We're not saying           these are some islands of lawlessness. We're saying         that the Park Service is not the policeman here, because          it is Congress that needs to give an agency power to           regulate ­­             JUSTICE KAGAN: And I guess part of my          question about this is, I look at that map, you know,            and that map of this area has all this green land, which            green represents real Federal park land, and there's a         river that runs through it. And ­­ and you're saying           Alderson Reporting Company Official that that river that runs through the park land, and          nobody can do anything on ­­ or the Feds can't do           anything on? I mean, this isn't the inholdings. I            mean, I can understand the argument with respect to the           inholdings and the rivers that are running through the         inholdings. But this is the rivers that are running          through the park land.                Now, it seems to me a very strange thing          that Congress would have created Federal lands in a         Federal park land but said that the Federal Park Service          can't have anything to do with the rivers. The rivers           are like an important part of the park, aren't they?                      MS. BOTSTEIN: The rivers are an important        part of the park, but the control over the rivers is           Alaska's, is Alaska's by sovereign right. And the clear          statement cases of the Court make clear that Congress         does not lightly or vaguely take that power away from a           State that ­­              JUSTICE KENNEDY: But that's not true as to         navigable waters. The Federal government can regulate        navigable waters.              MS. BOTSTEIN: It can, but it has not done          so in this case. ANILCA does not talk about navigable           waters. It does not talk about the Commerce Clause to           regulate navigation. It is about the Land Management         Alderson Reporting Company Official agency's ability to regulate parks. And our position is          that the park ­­ the park management can't encompass         State waters and lands.                And there are good reasons that Congress       made that choice. Alaska's waters are used in ways that           are different from the lower in, for example, the          Yukon Flats National Wildlife Refuge, there are three        villages of less than one hundred people that are         hundreds of miles from any road. And this is common in            Alaska. So these rivers are the way that you would           travel to get medical care or groceries or obtain school          books for your children. And Alaska's ability to make          choices about what sort of conduct is permissible on the          rivers furthers its ability to provide economic and        self­sufficiency for its people, which was one of        Congress's primary goals in passing this legislation.                   The idea that the creation of a park somehow          transforms Alaska's waters into Federal waters, Alaska       lands into Federal lands without a clear statement would          dramatically change Alaska's sovereign ability to      control its property in a way that this Court never has            sanctioned and should not do so now.                   JUSTICE BREYER: As I read it ­­ as I read             it, it's complicated, but in a sense it's simple.          Yosemite has some private land within it and a lot of            Alderson Reporting Company Official public. You know, there's some houses in Yosemite owned          by private people. There are interior regs that apply          to all of Yosemite, such as certain fireplace regs.         There are some that only apply to the park but not the            private people. What this statute says is the latter.          Doesn't deprive ­­ apply to that land that you gave to           Alaska. That's what the statute says.                   And what the reg says is that our hovercraft         reg applies to everything within Yosemite, if this were         Yosemite. This navigable waters, whether the land        around it is owned by James Jones, the private person,          or whether it's owned ­­ whether it's part of Yosemite          Park. That's what it seemed to say to me.                      Now, there are two problems with what I just          read. One is the third sentence and the word "unit."           And the second problem is the NPS, the National Park          Service, is it really all of Yosemite, you know, with          that private thing or is it just the public part?                      Now, that's at least a sorry. I shouldn't           have got into it. It's too complicated. Skip the           question.             (Laughter.)             CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Why don't you       take ­­ the ­­ the rest of us are interested in your            answer to Justice Breyer.    Alderson Reporting Company Official             MS. BOTSTEIN: Thank you, Mr. Chief Justice.        I don't actually think it's all that complicated, Your         Honor. Analytically, the Court would first look to the          enabling legislation that creates a specific park. In          the case of Yosemite, there's actually a clear         congressional indication that says the Park Service has        sole and exclusive jurisdiction over park lands.                   That's not what we have here. Here we would          look to ANILCA and specifically the limitations in        Section (c), which tell the Park Service, in fact,         you cannot manage State and private lands as though they          were public lands.               CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, counsel.                   MS. BOTSTEIN: Thank you, Your Honor.                   CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Ms. Kovner.                  ORAL ARGUMENT OF RACHEL P. KOVNER                    ON BEHALF OF THE RESPONDENTS                 MS. KOVNER: Mr. Chief Justice, and may it         please the Court:               When Congress created new park units in       Alaska for the express purpose of protecting their        waters, their free­flowing rivers and their fish, it        didn't simultaneously strip the Park Service of       preexisting authorities to achieve those goals by       regulating navigable waters. And I think it might make           Alderson Reporting Company Official sense just to clarify our argument to first explain what          those preexisting authorities are and why they let the         Park Service ­­              JUSTICE ALITO: Well, before you get to        that, could we begin with what the Ninth Circuit         decided?             You're entitled to defend the judgment on       any ground that you like, but ­­ that was presented          below, but the only issue we have to ­­ we have to reach             is the correctness of the Ninth Circuit's decision.                    Now, I understand what the Ninth Circuit to         have held, to be this, that the hovercraft rule is not           barred by the second sentence of Section (c) of         ANILCA, because the hovercraft rule does not apply only         in Alaska, because it applies throughout the country.                    Is that ­­ that's a correct understanding of         what they held?               MS. KOVNER: I actually think they were         saying two things. I think you're right that they were            saying that hovercraft rule isn't covered by the second         sentence. But I think they say this rule is out for two              reasons: One is that conservation­specific unit, and        the other is ­­ and I direct you to a and a ­­ they               talk about whether the regulation is generally       applicable or not. And I take that to mean, essentially            Alderson Reporting Company Official whether it applies only on public lands, in which case          it's out, or whether it's the very limited class of          rules that the Park Service is allowed to write in the           way that Justice Breyer alludes to, to apply to both          public and private lands.                Service's ­­             And so if I could just explain the Park          JUSTICE ALITO: Well, no. I want to ­­ I            understand the ­­ the holding ­­ and I ­­ I stand ready              to be corrected ­­ to be what I stated: That the             hovercraft rule is not barred because it isn't        Alaska­specific.             And, I mean, you filed a ­page brief and,           as I read it, you didn't get to the reason that the             Ninth Circuit based its decision on until page , and          you devoted exactly a paragraph to it.                    And why don't you concede that it's wrong?        It's a ridiculous interpretation, is it not?                    (Laughter.)             MS. KOVNER: We think we have two much         stronger arguments than that, and we focused on those.         And if I could go to the ­­                    JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: If it's wrong. And ­­        and ­­ and walk it through, their argument, and tell me           why they are wrong.    Alderson Reporting Company Official               I think they start with that Federal lands,       as defined under the statute, are only lands that the          U.S. has title to.                Do you take ­­ do you disagree with that?         And if so, why?                MS. KOVNER: We think public lands are        slightly more expansive than that. Public ­­                   statute ­­ JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: How? Read the                   MS. KOVNER: Sure.                JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: ­­ and ­­ and ­­ and         tell me how ­­               MS. KOVNER: Yes.                JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: ­­ in the statute ­­                   MS. KOVNER: Yes.                JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: ­­ you can read it more         broadly.             MS. KOVNER: Sure. So the ­­ in the          definition ­­             JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: I'm going ­­ I'm in the         definition section.              MS. KOVNER: Yes. So we're on a of our           appendix, and it defines public lands to mean lands         situated in Alaska, which are Federal lands. So we're          going to look to the Federal lands. And Federal lands           Alderson Reporting Company Official means lands which the title is held by the United          States.             And then "lands" is defined ­­ and this is         the critical portion for us. "Lands" is defined to          include not just lands and waters, but also interests         therein.             And what we get from that, Your Honor, is         that public lands includes interests in water that the         United States holds title to.                 CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, in other       words, the interests aren't the title. This is         subsidiary. It's ­­ it's water that the U.S. holds          title to and interests in that water, even though they          are not reflected in the title?                  MS. KOVNER: We agree the U.S. has to hold          title to the interest. It has to be a property ­­                        CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: It has to hold title         to the interest.               MS. KOVNER: That's right, Your Honor.                   CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, that's where I        kind of stumbled in your argument, because you're not         claiming title to the submerged land. It's clear that's          in the State ­­               MS. KOVNER: That's right.                 CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: ­­ right?      Alderson Reporting Company Official             You're ­­ you ­­ you rely on the reserved         water right.              Is that ever expressed as "title," as       opposed to a ­­ the words ­­ "usufructuary right"?                      MS. KOVNER: Usufructuary right is a       property interest, so it is something you can hold title          to. And one place you see that is in the Mohawk            Power ­­             JUSTICE SCALIA: Yes, but holding title to        that is different from holding title to the water.                     MS. KOVNER: That's right.                 JUSTICE SCALIA: And you're ­­ you're       telling us that the river, that the government holds         title to the river. It doesn't. It has usufructuary           rights in the river.                MS. KOVNER: No. We're saying, as ­­ as          Your Honor articulated it correctly, that the United        States holds title to an interest in the water.                     JUSTICE SCALIA: That's different from      holding title to the water.                 MS. KOVNER: I agree. And the question is,           if we hold title to an interest in the water, how broad            is that interest, and what does it let us regulate.                      And the interest has been defined by       regulation. And ­­ and consistent with the statements         Alderson Reporting Company Official of what this land is being reserved for, it's an          interest that we hold over the entirety of the water.          And that permits us to regulate the water.                                And I think one way you know that ­­         CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, it's just a ­­         I'm sorry to pause ­­ pause there.                     I understood with reserve water doctrine is      usually, you know, we need water to do this, so we           get ­­ we have a reserve right to percent of the             water, or the initial flow, or whatever. I've never          thought of it as a basis for general regulatory          authority.             MS. KOVNER: So I think that move is made by            ANILCA, the statute. It's ANILCA­specific, because       ANILCA says if you hold title to an interest, like a           reserved water right interest, then that is a public          land, and it can be regulated as public lands.                                 And if ­­ if there's questions ­­      JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: I'm with you so far.        That gets you to regulating the waters in Federal ­­         in ­­ in ­­ in Federal units, because the U.S. under           ANILCA only controls lands within the conservation units        that are public lands.                MS. KOVNER: Yes.                JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: In the United States.       Alderson Reporting Company Official             MS. KOVNER: Right. We only have authority         to regulate the lands in which we have reserved water          rights, and those are only waters within the park's         units.                         And, Your Honor ­­   JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: So ­­ and does the        no­hovercraft rule apply to the nonpublic lands? Is         that the position you're taking, that you have the right          to regulate that as well?                 MS. KOVNER: No. The hovercraft rule only         applies on public lands, and so it doesn't apply on          inholdings.             JUSTICE BREYER: Then ­­ then ­­ then I'm         completely wrong. Then what the right ­­ then ­­ then I            was totally wrong. I ­­ I thought that the argument was              that ­­ just to go to my Yosemite analogy ­­                     MS. KOVNER: Yes.                JUSTICE BREYER: ­­ that the hovercraft rule        was like a rule that applies to all of Yosemite, say a             campfire rule that applies even to John Jones's house.                     MS. KOVNER: So it's written to apply in two          places.             JUSTICE BREYER: I mean, it could be the          navigable waters. It wouldn't be John Jones's        fireplace. Alderson Reporting Company Official But if that ­­ if that's your argument, I                     was wrong.              MS. KOVNER: No. Your ­­ Your Honor, it's          written to apply in two places. The first is on           Federally­owned lands, and the second is on ­­ on         navigable waters.              JUSTICE BREYER: I thought the navigable        waters are not. They're on John Jones's property. But           you still have the authority to regulate them, because         the regulation that does it is not a regulation that           applies solely to public lands.                 MS. KOVNER: That's right. And Your Honor,         so it's like ­­               JUSTICE BREYER: Is that right? Because you         just seemed to say the opposite a minute ago.                      MS. KOVNER: No. So the ­­ the way that the            regulations are written as ­­ it's ., and it ­­ it           says they apply in two places: Federally­Owned lands,         and also on navigable waters that are within the parks.                      JUSTICE BREYER: Now, navigable waters that       are within the boundaries of the National Park Service.                     MS. KOVNER: That's right. That's right.                    JUSTICE BREYER: That's like John Jones's       house in Yosemite.               MS. KOVNER: That's right.     Alderson Reporting Company Official             JUSTICE BREYER: The fireplace reg applies       to him, even though his is a private house, because it's            within the boundary of Yosemite.                                         MS. KOVNER: Yes.    JUSTICE BREYER: Am I right or not?         MS. KOVNER: Well, I think the ­­ the          difficulty is, Your Honor, we think that the navigable         waters are not like John Jones's house. We think          they're Federal lands.               But if Your Honor is to assume ­­                   JUSTICE BREYER: Either way, you say you        win. Either they are Federal lands and this is part of            a reg that applies to Federal lands; or they are not           Federal lands, in which case this reg applies to both          nonfederal and ­­ I mean nonpublic lands and public          lands. So it's not within the second sentence.                     Is that your argument?                MS. KOVNER: That is right. And so if we           could talk about what that sentence means, even        assuming ­­             CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, but if that's        right, I mean, it ­­ it ­­ it's right because the            question is do these things apply solely to public         lands. And you say, well, the second sentence doesn't          matter because we say they don't apply solely to public          Alderson Reporting Company Official lands.             That's not a very significant protection for        the inholders.              MS. KOVNER: I ­­ I think it is. And the              reason is that we have very limited authority to         regulate things that are inholdings. And in particular,         we are acting here pursuant to an express grant of          authority to regulate waters within the parks. In         ­ ­­             JUSTICE ALITO: Well, you ­­ you want to         talk about waters, and ­­ and after this question I          won't say anything more on this, but is the Ninth          Circuit's holding limited to waters? The ­­ the State          of Alaska on page and of their brief cite a notice              in the Federal Register by the Park Service in which          they defend the regulation of nonfederal oil and gas         activities on the basis of Sturgeon, on the ground that          Section (c) of ANILCA applies only to Alaska­specific        regulations. And since these are not Alaska­specific,        those ­­ those regulations apply.                 So they understand it to apply to something        more than just navigable waters.                 MS. KOVNER: That's right. So I think the           long­standing interpretation for years, so that in a         notice and comment regulation of what this provision        Alderson Reporting Company Official means, is that it only limits rules that are written          solely to apply to public lands.                  it ­­             Alaska ­­                                                 And as to what the Park Service can do when          JUSTICE ALITO: It's solely to apply to        JUSTICE BREYER: That's the whole ­­      JUSTICE KENNEDY: ­­ within such unit?       MS. KOVNER: We just ­­     JUSTICE ALITO: Solely to apply to nonpublic        units to lands in Alaska.                 MS. KOVNER: That ­­ if that's how Your         Honor understands the Ninth Circuit's ruling.                  The regulation, the ­year regulation I'm      alluding to, says if it's a rule that applies to both            public and private lands, then it's not covered by this          provision.             And just to be clear, we have very limited         authority to regulate private lands. So it's not a          plenary ­­ this ­­ this provision doesn't grant us the          ability to regulate privately held ­­                 JUSTICE SCALIA: Let's ­­ let's talk about        your authority. I don't even get to the second           sentence. I just get to the first sentence. The            authority of the Park Service comes from the statute         Alderson Reporting Company Official which authorizes the Secretary of Interior to, quote,        "prescribe such regulations necessary or proper for the        use and management of system units, including those        concerning boating and other activities. Only here the         CSU's are park system units."                 That's .(c). As a result, non­Federal        holdings unambiguously fall outside the scope of the        Secretary's authority because of the first sentence.       "Only those lands within the boundaries of any        conservation system unit which are public lands as such         term is defined in this Act shall be deemed to be           included as a portion of such unit."                    If it's not within the unit, it's not within         the basic authority of the Park Service to issue         regulations, period.              So you ­­ you have to show that ­­ I think            the Federal government holds title to the water. I          don't think you can show. Nobody holds title to the           water.             MS. KOVNER: So if I could walk through that           authority that Your Honor is discussing and show why it          allows us to enact the regulation here. I agree, Your            Honor, that the authority under (a) is general authority         to prescribe only those rules that are necessary for the          protection of the system units, meaning the parks. And          Alderson Reporting Company Official I agree that this is outside of that. And as a result              our authority to prescribe rules for this land is very          limited.             JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Why? You're ­­ you're        conceding that the waters are outside of that?                    MS. KOVNER: I'm conceding ­­ well, we        haven't ­­ our first argument, Your Honor, is that no,          these are public lands. But if ­­ I think Justice            Scalia's premise is what is our authority to regulate if          they are not public lands. Okay?                   And I want to focus on provision (b), okay,          and just the language of provision (b). It has always           been understood to allow us to regulate waters that are          within the boundaries of the parks regardless of who         owns them. And who owns them is always going to be the             State under Petitioner's theory no matter where we are.                     And just to focus on the language of it,         it's a very specific express grant of authority to          regulate waters within parks. It says we can ­­ the           Park Service can enact rules, quote, "concerning boating        and other activities, not just on but also relating to          waters that are located within" ­­                 JUSTICE BREYER: I read that first sentence.         It's very interesting, because the tone of voice is the          only way I can deal with this case. Watch. Imagine we              Alderson Reporting Company Official have a valley that's a public land, and that valley            traverses the boundary of the unit. Some of it's inside           and some of it's outside.                 Now, only those lands within the boundaries       of any conservation system which are public ­­ within         the boundaries of any conservation system which are        public lands shall be deemed to be included as a portion            of the unit.               So the only part of that valley that it's a          portion of the unit is that part of the valley that's           within the boundary of the unit. The part that's          outside the boundary of the unit is not part of the           unit.             MS. KOVNER: Yes. So ­­                  JUSTICE BREYER: Is that what it ­­ I         thought it must mean something like that. If it doesn't           mean something like that, it means what Justice Scalia         says. And then they're ­­ Joe Jones' house, the Indian           reservation, none of it is part of the unit. But that            can't be what it means, can it?                   MS. KOVNER: So I think the ­­                    JUSTICE BREYER: Do you see what I ­­ are           you following it?               MS. KOVNER: I think ­­ I think I am             following. The statutes that Congress has enacted draw         Alderson Reporting Company Official a distinction between land that is within the boundaries         of the unit, which includes private lands, and lands ­­                     JUSTICE BREYER: If it makes clear ­­ if it          makes clear that private lands like Joe Jones' house are          a part of the unit?                 MS. KOVNER: I think they're within the         boundaries of the unit, not part of the unit.                     JUSTICE BREYER: Within the boundaries of       it. Ah, so distinction between being part of the unit           and being within the boundaries of the unit.                    MS. KOVNER: Just ­­ so this ­­ this grant          of authority in (b) has always been ­­ yes.                     JUSTICE SCALIA: You say this grant of        authority in (b). You're quoting from the        regulations ­­                                                             MS. KOVNER: No.    JUSTICE SCALIA: ­­ right from the statute.        MS. KOVNER: No.    JUSTICE SCALIA: What are you quoting from?        MS. KOVNER: From ­­ so on a of our          appendix, it's a statute. It's a statute that was            enacted in , and it expressly grants the Park         Service the authority to enact rules concerning boating        and other activities on or relating to waters.                    JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Can you tell me whether        Alderson Reporting Company Official that statute violates this statute?                 MS. KOVNER: I think that's ­­ I think it's            whether this provision prohibits the Park Service from        exercising that authority or whether ­­                 CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: I'm sorry. Go        ahead.              MS. KOVNER: Yes. And so to answer that, I          think we look at the text and what does the text do.            And the text says you can't apply on lands that were           conveyed to the State or to private parties those rules          that are applicable solely to public lands within        conservation system units. And so it's not ­­                    JUSTICE SCALIA: a? You're saying it's on         page a?              MS. KOVNER: Yes.                JUSTICE SCALIA: That's U.S.C. ­­       . It's a regulation. It's not ­­                     MS. KOVNER: No. I'm sorry. It is ­­ it is             a statute. It's the Act of . I understand that the              numbering is ­­ it's an unusually high ­­                   JUSTICE SCALIA: It's not the numbering.       It's ­­ it says regulations ­­ oh, I see.                      (Laughter.)             enact ­­ MS. KOVNER: It's about the authority to        Alderson Reporting Company Official             JUSTICE SCALIA: The statute is addressing       regulations.                         statute.             MS. KOVNER: Yes.    JUSTICE SCALIA: That's the subtitle in the        MS. KOVNER: Yes. And so just ­­ I think            Justice Kennedy was making this ­­ this distinction.        And I think it's exactly the right distinction. Is ­­           is this authority one that gives the Park Service the          ability to regulate lands whether they are public or         private?             And if you look at the text, it does. And           as a result, this is not a regulation ­­ if you think              that waters within the parks are private lands, this is          not the kind of regulation that's carved out by the          text. Just giving meaning to the word solely, that has           to be correct.               And if you also look to other provisions of         the statute, it confirms it in two ways, if I could just             focuses on two of them.                 The first is, if you look at the management         plan of the statute of ANILCA, it expressly contemplates         that the Park Service is going to be able to regulate           private lands under some circumstances. And it does         that by saying, you need your management plan to         Alderson Reporting Company Official describe the activities that are occurring on private        lands and to describe any methods you're going to use ­­          the methods you're going to use to control those         activities, including, quote, "issuance or enforcement      of regulations."                          And just the other thing I think ­­        JUSTICE KAGAN: And if I'm looking at the         right section, I mean, I would have thought that that            was key to your argument, because it says in these          management plans what you need is a ­­ is a "description             of privately owned areas which are within such unit."         So it's clearly contemplating that there are these        private areas that are within the unit.                   And then as you say, it goes on and says we           want in these plans some idea of what regulations are          going to be applying on those private lands within the          unit.             MS. KOVNER: That's right, Your Honor. And         if I could just focus on the one other part of the             statute that confirms that this reading is correct, that         the Park Service isn't being stripped of its preexisting         authority to regulate rivers. It's if you look at the           other provisions of the statute that very clearly        confirm the Park Service is going to have the authority          to regulate rivers. And let me just give two examples           Alderson Reporting Company Official of those.              The first is, when Congress is setting aside        land for parks ­­ and let me use the park here as an             example ­­ it states it's ­­ its purposes. So it says            "We are creating here the Yukon­Charley Rivers Preserve.        And our purposes are to ensure the protection of,"         quote, "the entire Yukon­Charley basin, including the       lakes and the streams. So that provision confirms that          Congress is contemplating by setting aside this land as         parks, we're going to have this preexisting authority to         regulate waters within the parks still in place.                    And just one other example of these       provisions is the Wild and Scenic River Act provisions         that are in the statute. And Congress sets aside as a            special type of conservation system unit wild and scenic         rivers. These are entirely composed of rivers. And          says, Park Service, you are supposed to protect those         pursuant to your Organic Act authority in these wild and          scenic water provisions.               The Petitioner's view would ­­                CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: What does ­­ you ­­        on page , and I think you have mentioned this several            times, so ­­ you talk about this isn't a problem because            your authority is circumscribed and you have the        inholdings are ­­ have substantial protections against       Alderson Reporting Company Official Park Service regulation. What ­­ what are those         protections?             MS. KOVNER: Yes. So I want to make clear,            our authority is very narrow, and we can only regulate          where there is some statute that authorizes us to         regulate inholdings and ­­               CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Do you ­­ do you         think the statute that authorizes you to regulate is the          one that says "the Secretary shall prescribe such        regulations as the Secretary considers necessary or       proper"? Would you ­­                MS. KOVNER: We're principally relying on       the one right below that, (b).                  CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, but do you        rely on that one? Because if you rely on that one, I             don't see that it provides any protections at all.                     MS. KOVNER: So let me tell you how ­­ how           that first one has been interpreted and why it does          provide protections. So that first provision has been         interpreted to allow the Secretary to regulate private        lands when doing so is necessary for the protection of          the system units.               And so, for example, if the Park Service        regulates some activity on private lands that is going         to cause danger or harm to the system units that's ­­          Alderson Reporting Company Official that adjoins them, that's the only circumstance in which         authority to regulate ­­               CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: So danger ­­ danger        or harm, is that what it's limited to? Or could it be             limited to scenic, environmental, noise impacts?                  MS. KOVNER: We think it's clear that the         Park Service can't simply treat inholdings as though        they were public lands. And the only case in which the            Park Service has tried to use its authority to regulate          inholdings under that provision is this case where there         is going to be some kind of harm to the actual public            lands that befalls the park's units. But ­­                    JUSTICE KENNEDY: But is that true even if         it's a ­­ the regulation is nation ­­ applicable          nationwide?             MS. KOVNER: We think that nationwide, yes,        the Park Service's authority to regulate inholdings is        quite limited.              JUSTICE KENNEDY: So ­­ so if ­­ because if          that's true, then I don't know what ­­ then you disagree            with the Ninth Circuit on the meaning that it gave ­­          gives to the "solely" phrase?                 MS. KOVNER: I think that we think ­­ and           we've said for years in a regulation that's entitled           the Chevron difference that what the "solely" phrase        Alderson Reporting Company Official does is it carves out the rules that are applicable          solely to public lands. And because our authority is so           limited, that's most rules. It's only under very narrow          circumstances that we can write rules that apply to both          public and private lands.                CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: No, but your       authority is not limited if you get Chevron deference.         If you get Chevron deference on determining what you         think is necessary or proper, the idea that that's a          substantial circumscription of your authority doesn't      seem to me to be a valid one.                     MS. KOVNER: I don't think so. I mean,            there's a ­­ it's been a very long­standing limitation           on how this has been construed that we're not going          beyond the kinds of regulations I've described to        pervasive regulation. There might be, if we tried to          interpret our authority under this section more broadly,        there might be a clear statement problem then, but          there's certainly no clear statement problem ­­                  JUSTICE SCALIA: More broadly? Interpret       necessary or proper ­­ necessary or proper to mean         necessary or proper? You think it's beyond belief that          you're going to do that?                 MS. KOVNER: I ­­ I do. And when the             history is there to prove it, it's been interpreted         Alderson Reporting Company Official quite narrowly, and I think the Court would ­­                     JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Some might argue that       your proposed regulations on oil contravene the intent        of this provision.                So assuming we do, how do you deal with        that? Assuming some people do. I don't ­­ I don't know               that ­­             MS. KOVNER: Yes. I ­­ I think Your Honor             is right, that some people might say that that's not an           appropriate regulation, and they will be able to        challenge it nationwide as not an appropriate exercise        of our authority.               But what's never been disputed in this case        is that, in general, under the Act, this very          specific authorization of the Park Service to regulate        waters within units, we have the authority to regulate         waters in units ­­               JUSTICE BREYER: What ­­                JUSTICE ALITO: What can you do about why         this provision that you ­­ you reproduce on a gets          around the first section of (c)? This ­­ that          provision allows regulation of waters within Service       units, but the first section, as I read it, says that            nonpublic land within the boundaries of ­­ of a CSU is            not part of the CSU.     Alderson Reporting Company Official             MS. KOVNER: Yes. So I think the statutory           authorization is actually slightly broader. And just to         read the language, it's concerning boating or other        activities on or relating to waters located within        system units. And that's always been understood to         allow the regulation of all the waters in system units,          regardless of their ownership. And I think it makes           sense, because you can't regulate or protect a river          piecemeal, stretch by stretch.                If Congress ­­ when Congress set aside these        rivers and said the Park Service is going to be able to            protect the entire river and stream and basin,        protecting the rivers and streams and basins that are         Federal property is going to require setting a rule for           the whole river, and enforcing the rule on the whole ­­                      JUSTICE SCALIA: is a general        statute; it applies everywhere, right?                             MS. KOVNER: Yeah.    JUSTICE SCALIA: And ­­ and ,       Section is specific to Alaska, isn't it?                                MS. KOVNER: Yes.    JUSTICE SCALIA: Isn't there a general rule         that the specific governs the general?                              MS. KOVNER: Yes. And I think then ­­          JUSTICE SCALIA: So this general provision       Alderson Reporting Company Official is limited by what Congress has said about Alaska. And           that sentence says, "Only those lines within the        boundaries of any CSU which are public lands shall be          deemed to be included as a portion of such unit."                                   MS. KOVNER: Yes.    JUSTICE SCALIA: And if you read that back         into , it seems to me the Park Service doesn't          have jurisdiction.              MS. KOVNER: No. So we agree, Your Honor,          that the specific governs the general, and so the Court          has to give effect to that first sentence. And what           that first sentence says is they can't be treated ­­         they are not part of the unit.                   So then we look to the Park Service's        authorities and we say, does the Park Service's        authority depend on this water being part of the unit?          And the answer is no. If you look at (b), it's an             authorization to impose rules concerning boating and ­­       and other activities on or relating to waters located         within.             JUSTICE KENNEDY: Go ­­                JUSTICE BREYER: The regulation itself says,       it says water ­­ "Hovercraft regulation applies to,        quote, 'waters subject to the jurisdiction of the        United States within the boundaries of the National Park         Alderson Reporting Company Official MS. KOVNER: Yes.    JUSTICE BREYER: And then the National Park        Service.'"                         Service somewhere has a definition that equates it with          the unit. The National Park Service is defined         identically to system units. That's at U.S.C.          and .              So if we ­­ Justice Scalia's point is this         seems to take the private land, the in­holdings, and say          they're not part of the unit; only the public lands are           part of the unit ­­                            MS. KOVNER: That's ­­    JUSTICE BREYER: ­­ and then the Hovercraft        Regulation applies only to the unit.                              MS. KOVNER: No, Your Honor.      JUSTICE BREYER: And that's ­­ that ­­ isn't         that the point? Yes. That's ­­                                                       that?             MS. KOVNER: No ­­    JUSTICE BREYER: ­­ the point.      MS. KOVNER: No, your Honor.      JUSTICE BREYER: What's the response to       MS. KOVNER: So I think Your Honor's         suggesting that the regulations themselves say they       don't apply ­­  Alderson Reporting Company Official JUSTICE BREYER: Yes.    MS. KOVNER: ­­     unless it's part of a unit.       JUSTICE BREYER: Exactly.    MS. KOVNER: And I think that's not correct.                                                          There's this distinction between what's within the       boundaries of the park and what is park lands. And           Your ­­ Your Honor, this is established in Section ,          among other places, where it talks about whether land is          within the boundaries of the system unit ­­                               park.             JUSTICE BREYER: Ah.    MS. KOVNER: ­­ versus being within the        JUSTICE BREYER: So you're saying it applies        within ­­ it is within the boundaries of the unit,          although the unit consists of just the public land. Who           drafted this? This is ­­                 (Laughter.)             MS. KOVNER: And to be clear, there's never         been any ­­ to be clear, there's never been any dispute           that the regulations are written to apply to these         lands. The only question in this case is whether          Section strips that authority.                 And Your Honor, I would just ask the Court          again ­­             JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Well, the specific would       Alderson Reporting Company Official overcome the general. So if Congress passed a new           statute, it could limit or expand as it chose,          correct?             MS. KOVNER: Yes. And Your Honor, just ­­         if I could leave the Court with ­­ I mean, in             interpreting Section , this provision that talks       about rules solely applicable to public lands, and        whether that removes the Park Service's preexisting       authority to regulate waters in the parks, I would just           ask the Court to look to all the other provisions of the            statute that clearly contemplate ­­ of ANILCA, the        statute ­­ that clearly contemplate the Park Service is         going to retain the authority to protect park's waters.                     JUSTICE ALITO: Let's say that part of a         river is within a CSU. And do you read this statute to              mean that the ­­the Park Service could regulate boating          miles downstream from that part of the ­­ on that           river, because it's relating to waters that are within         the CSU?              MS. KOVNER: The Park Service has ­­ has         consistently understood its authority to be regulating       the park's ­­ within the park's boundaries. It's never          sought to enact a regulation outside of the park's          boundaries. But this provision has uniformly been         understood to confer on the Park Service ­­       Alderson Reporting Company Official             JUSTICE BREYER: Are you satisfied with this        holding ­­ imaginary ­­ but the Ninth Circuit's wrong.                     regulation.             Two, the second sentence does not bar this        Three, there are other possible arguments;      we send it back for reconsideration as to whether those          arguments are good or bad.                  MS. KOVNER: I'm ­­ I'm not sure I        understand the second sentence of the whole ­­ so ­­                     JUSTICE BREYER: They ­­ they ­­ we're        saying that the second sentence, which is what they're         talking about primarily in the briefs, the second        sentence of (c) ­­               MS. KOVNER: Yes.                JUSTICE BREYER: ­­ "no lands which,"       et cetera, you're right about that.                  MS. KOVNER: Right.                JUSTICE BREYER: You're right about ­­ I        mean I imagine ­­                MS. KOVNER: Yes.                JUSTICE BREYER: Then as to this first        sentence, which I ­­ I don't think I focused on,             particularly, we say go back and argue that.                    MS. KOVNER: Your Honor, this case could be         sent back to address both that and to address the          Alderson Reporting Company Official question of what is public lands, which is a question           that wasn't addressed below. And we think it would be           sufficient to say the second sentence doesn't ­­ the         text clearly indicates the second sentence doesn't       prohibit the application of those rules that are validly         written to apply to both public and private lands within          the parks.              This regulation is a rule that's been        written to apply, regardless of who owns the lands in          the parks. It's an exercise of our narrow authority ­­                      JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: No. That's you winning.                    (Laughter.)               I think Justice Alito has been asking you       this question from the beginning.                             MS. KOVNER: Yes.    JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: What do you think the        Ninth Circuit meant? And do you agree with its          interpretation? As he pointed out ­­                              MS. KOVNER: Yes.    JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: ­­ you spent pages of         your brief arguing other things ­­                 MS. KOVNER: Yes.                JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: ­­ putting you to the        test.             MS. KOVNER: Yes.    Alderson Reporting Company Official             JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: All right. So what do         you think it held?                MS. KOVNER: So we think there are ­­ we          have two stronger arguments, but we think part of what          the Ninth Circuit said was the second sentence only         limits rules that are specific to conservation system        units. And "conservation system units" is defined in         the statute to be parks units in Alaska.                    And we think, yes, the plain text of this         regulation only limits those kinds of rules. We don't          think the Court needs to reach that ­­                   JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Do you think the Ninth        Circuit was right?               MS. KOVNER: Yes.                JUSTICE ALITO: So if there's a rule that          applies to conservation ­­ it applies to Alaska, and it          applies to the National Mall, that would be that you          can't have a Hovercraft in Alaska or in the tidal basin.            Under the Ninth Circuit's ­­ the Ninth Circuit's        rationale, that would be ­­ ­­ (c) wouldn't          buy that.              MS. KOVNER: I don't think there's any         dispute that's what the plain text says. And the reason           I don't think that's ridiculous or irrational,       Your Honor, is because when ANILCA was enacted, there         Alderson Reporting Company Official was a very well­settled regulatory regime that didn't         subject private lands to any kind of plenary authority.         So Congress had every reason to ­­ may I just finish my             sentence?             Congress had every reason to expect that       would remain the rule, nationwide. And what it was          concerned about was that the Park Service would deviate         from that approach in Alaska when these new lands were          added.             CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, counsel.                   Mr. Findley, you have two minutes remaining.                REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF MATTHEW T. FINDLEY                     ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONER                 JUSTICE KENNEDY: Just in the two minutes,        can you address the very last point the Solicitor         General made, please?               MR. FINDLEY: Yes. And that's ­­ it's         simply backwards to what (c) was supposed to do.                     Let's take Joe Jones' house, and let's think        about it differently. Let's think about this as a          native corporation's land allotment.                You have percent of their land allotment        that they were given under Native Claim Settlement Act,         land that was given to them in exchange for         extinguishing their entire claim for aboriginal land       Alderson Reporting Company Official rights. It's there for economic development.                   It's about to be surrounded by these ANILCA        parks. It's worth taking a step back. What does ­­              Section (c) doing? It is saying before ANILCA was          passed, you're not part of the park and you're not          subject to Park Service regulation. The day after         ANILCA was part ­­ excuse me. The day after ANILCA is            passed, you're still not part of the park and you're          still not subject to Park Service regulation.                   The government's position here, they keep      saying their authority is limited, and Mr. Chief Justice         hit the nail on the head. They're relying on the           Organic Act which allows them to enact any regulations         they feel necessary at any time.                  They've already done that with the (b) oil        and gas regulations, seeking to apply those to        non­Federal land within Alaska. And the hits are going          to keep on coming unless this Court stops this         interpretation and goes back to what (c) was meant to          do, which was to prevent the Park Service from taking          these lands that aren't owned by the government and         regulating them as though they are part of the park.                      And the second point want ­­ I ­­ I want to             make ­­ I imagine about seconds at this point:           There's a lot of discussion about whether ANILCA covers          Alderson Reporting Company Official navigable waters or not. The clear statement rule         covers that question. And in that circumstance, it's a          question of is anything in the statute clearly saying we          are taking away State authority over navigable waters?                    You will not find the term navigable waters        in the statute once.                Let's contrast this to other park­enabling      legislation. This is for Olympic National Park, and         you'll find this at U.S.C. (n). And here's what           it says: "The boundary of Olympic National Park         Washington is" ­­ if I may just finish the quote ­­ "is             hereby revised to" ­­ "is hereby revised to include         within the park all submerged lands and waters of Lake          Ozette, Washington, and the Ozette River,       Washington."             There's your clear statement.                Thank you.              CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank      you, counsel.              Case is submitted.               (Whereupon, at : p.m., the      case in the   above­entitled matter was submitted.)    Alderson Reporting Company Official Officialago : agree : : ANILCA :, Anchorage :, : : : : agreement : Ah : : ahead : Air : : : :, AL : Alaska :,, : : applying : :, : approach : appropriate :, : :, : :,, : : : : : :, area : : : : : : :,, areas :, : : : argue : : : :,,, arguing : : : :, : Page  :,, : :, :, : :, : :, :,, : :,, :, :, :, : : : :, : : : : A a.m : : ability : :, :, : : able : : : : aboriginal : above­entitled : : Absolutely : absurd : accompany : achieve : acquire : acres : Act :, : : :, :, : :,,, :, : : : :, : : : : answer : : : : : APPEARANCES : : :, ANILCA­specific : :,,,, : : : :,, : :,, : :, : : : : appendix : : :, : : : :, : : : : authorization : : : : :, authorizes : argument : : :,, :,, :, : :,, : : : : : : : b :, :, : : : : back : : : : : B Alaska's : acting : activities : : :, :,,, : : : : :, : Alaska­specific : : : : : activity : actual : : added : addition : address : :, : addressed : addressing : adequate : adjoins : adjudicated : Administration :, Alaskan : alcove : Alito :, : : : : : : : : : allotment :, allow : : : allowed : : allows : : : advantage : Aeronautics :, alluding : agencies : : amicus : : alludes : : agency :, agency's : : analogy : Analytically : : : asking : assert : : asserting : : bar : : balancing : arguments : applicable :, : : : :, : : : : Army : :,, : : : : : : : : articulated : aside : :, : application : applied : applies : : : : : : : : :, : :,, : : : : attached :, : : : attempt : :, Assistant :, assume : assuming : :, :,, : : backwards : bad : balance : balanced : bargain : barred : : barrier : based : baseline : basic : basin : : : basins : basis :, : : : : attempting : Attorney : apply :, : authorities : : : : :,, :, : : : befalls : : : : authority : : began : : :,,,, :,, : :, :,, beginning : : :,, : : : behalf :, : :, :, :, : : :, :, : : : : : :, : : : : : : : :, :, belief : Alderson Reporting Company Alderson Reporting Company Official Page  :, conservation­spe... : : : code : children : column : choice : come : :, considers : choices : consistent : chose : : comes : consistently : Circuit : : : coming : consists : construed : contains : contemplate : : : : : : : Commerce : : :, common : completely : comment : : believe : believed : bereft : BERT : best : : beyond :, boat : boating : : :, : : : : : : books : Botstein : : :, brought : building : burn : buy : C c : : : C.F.R : call : : called : : : camp : campfire : :,, : :, :, CAPACITY : :,,, : care : : :, :, carefully : carries : carved : boundaries : :,, : carves : : : :, case : : :,,, : :, :,, :, Circuit's : : : : : : :, circumscribed : circumscription : circumstance : : circumstances : : cite : : : completing : complicated : : : : contemplates : contemplating : : : contested :, context : :, composed : concede : conceded : continuation : conceding :, concern : continued : concerned : : contrary : contrast : concerning : contravene : control : : :,, : : : : : : : : : concrete : conduct : confer : confirm : confirms : controls : : conveyed : : : : Congress : : corporation :, : : :, : : :, :, corporation's :,,,, : :,, : :, : : : :,, : : : : :, : : corporations : Corps : : correct : : : : : corrected : correctly : correctness : counsel : : Congress's : : congressional : conservation : : : : : : country : : :, : : : Court :, : couple : : : : claim : :, : : : : :, : : : Claims : : :, claiming :, :, : cases : : cause : central : certain : certainly : : cetera : challenge : change :, : Chevron : :, Chief :, : : :,, : : : :,,, :,,, : : : : :, : : : clarify : clarifying : class : Clause : Clean : :, :,,, clear :, :, : : : :, : :, : : : : :, : : :, :, :, clearly :, :, : : client : coast : :, : :, :,,,,, boundary : :,, : Breyer :, :,,, :, : : : : : : : :, :, :, :, : : : :, :, : : : :,,, :,,, : :,,, brief : : : : briefing : briefs : broad : broader : broadly : Alderson Reporting Company creates : creating : creation : critical : crystal : :, devoted : deviate : : : : : difference : CSU :, : different : : :, : : : exempt : : : exercise : : enacted : : :,, : : : : expand : : : : exercising : encompass : encroachments :, CSU's : CSUs : curiae : : : D D : D.C :, damn : danger : : : day : :, deal : : decided : decision : : : enforcement : enforcing : Engineer : differently : difficulty : direct : : DIRECTOR : disagree : : Engineers :, disavows : discussing : discussion : dispute : : ensure : entire : : : : : : disputed : distinction :, :, : distinguish : : entirely : entirety : entitled : : environmental : : EPA : : : : : : : :, expansive : expect : explain : : : explicit : explicitly : express : : : expressed : expressly : : : : extending : extension : extinguishing : F face : fact :, : : : Page  :, :, :, :, :,,, : : : Federal/State : federally : : :, Federally­owned :, Feds : feel : feet : filed : finally : find :, Findley : :, :,,, :, :,,,, :,,, :, : :, : : :, : :, :, :, : : :,, :,, : : :, :,, : : :,, finish : : fire : : fireplace : : : fires :, first : :, : : : : : : :, : : :, :, :, : fish : : Official drops : E E : :, economic : : : : effect : either : : :, emissions : enabling : : enact : : : : example : : : : examples : exception : exchange : excluded : excludes : exclusive : exclusively : excuse :, : :, : :, : : :, : : : delegated : :, : delegation : denied : : : delegate : Court's : cover : covered : : : covers : : created : : : : Department : depend : deprive : describe :, described : description : determining : development : : : : distinguishes : deemed : : distinguishing : : : doctrine : doing : : ESQ :,, : equates : defend : : deference :, defined : :, doubt : : : : : : : downstream : : :,, essentially : established : et : : defines : defining : definition : drafted : dramatically : evidence : draw : :, exactly : : :, : : fall : far : : fashion : Federal :,, :,, :, :, : : : :, : Flats : : : : flow : :,,, : fly : Alderson Reporting Company focus :, : focused : : focuses : focusing : following :, Forest :,, forget : frankly : free­flowing : Frost : : further : : : :, furthered : furthers : G G : gas : : general :, Official hits : hold :, : : : : : :, : : : :,, : : : : holding : : :, : : :, : : : : :, :, good : : : holdings : gotten : government :, holds :, : : :, : : : : government's : : governs : : grand : grant : : : :, : :, Honor : : : :, :,, : : :, : : : : :, : :, : : : : :, :, : : : Honor's : honoring : house : : :, : : : impacts : imperfect : important : : :, impose : improper : in­holding : in­holdings : inadvertently : include : : : included :, : Page  : : interpreting : irrational : islands : : issuance : issue : : : : :, : : issued : : issues : : J : : : James : includes : : January : Joe : : : : including : : : : incredibly : Indian : indicates : indication : information : inholders : inholdings :, :, : :,, : : : : :,, initial : inside : intended : intent : interest : : : :,, :, :, : interested : interesting : interests : : :,, interior : : interpret :, interpretation : : : : : interpreted : : John : :, :, : Jones : Jones' : : : Jones's :, :, : Judge : judgment : : jurisdiction : :,,, :, :, : : : : Justice : :, : :,,, :,, :, : :,, : : :, : : : : :, :, : :, :,,,, :, :, : :,, :, :, :, :, : : : : :,, :,, : granted : : : : grants : :,,, : : : green :, groceries : generally : : ground : : : : :, : generally­applic... Guard : : : :,, :, : GINSBURG : guess : : give : : : given :, : haphazard : : : : gives : : : houses : hovercraft : : : : : : : : :,, : :, : : : happen : : hovercrafts :, happy : Harbors : harm : :, hunt : hundred : hundreds : H giving : go : : : hat : : : : head : : : hear : : : held : :, goal : goals : :, goes : : : : : : : : help : : high : : history : hit : going : : : I idea : : : : identical : identically : imaginary : imagine : : : Alderson Reporting Company Official :,, : :, : :, : : : :, : : :, :,,, : lands :,,, :,,, : :, :,, :,,, :, :,, : : :,,, :,,,, :,,,,, : : : :,,,,, :, :,, : : : :, :, : :, : :,,,, :, :,, :, :, : :,, :,, : :,,,, : : : :,, : : :, :, :,, :, :, : :, :, :, :, : : :, : : :,, :, : : language :, : Laughter :, Page  lawlessness : leads : leave : legislation :, : : : : : :, : management : :, : : : : :, : let's :, : mandate : :, : :,, : lightly : limit : limitation : limitations : limited : : :, : : :,, :, : : limits : : : :, map : : : matter : : : : MATTHEW : :, : : mean : : : :,, : : : :, :, : : : : :, :, : :, :, : line : : lines : list : : located : : meaning : : long­standing : : look : : : : : : means : : : : : :, : : : meant : : : : : : :, : : : medical : :, : :, : mentioned : merely : looked : methods :, looking : : middle :, miles : : loosened : million : lose : lot : : mind : : minute : minutes :, Mohawk : move : lots : lower : : M :, : : :, :,,, : :,, :,,,, :,,, :,, : :, :, :, :, :, :, :, : :,,,, :,, : :, :, :,,, :,,, :,, : : :, :,, : : :,, :,,, :,, :, :,,, :,,,, : :,, :, :, :,, : :, :, : : K KAGAN : : :,,, :, :, :,,, : :, : keep :, Kennedy :, : :, : : :, : : : :, : : key : kind : : : : kinds : : : : Kleinfeld : know : : :, : : : : : :, :, : : Kovner : : :,, : : :,, :,, : :, :, :, :, :,,, :,,,, :,, :, :, : : :,, :,,,, :,,,, :, : : :, :, : :, : :,, : :, : :,,,, :,,, : : :,, :, :, :, :, : L lacks : Lake : lakes : land :, :, : : :, : :,, : : : : :, : : : : :, :,, : : : : machines : : : : making : laundry : law : Mall : manage : : N N :, : nail : narrow : : Alderson Reporting Company Official Page  : narrowly : nation : : national : : Organic : : :, :, :,, : : : : outer : : : : : :,, :, : : outside : :, : :,, : : : no­hovercraft : overall : : : : noise : : : : non­Federal : : :, : :, :, : : nationwide : nonfederal : overcome : owned : : : :, : :,, : : owners : : : nonpossessory : ownership : owns : :, park­enabling : : : : : : : Ozette :, : : : : percent : : : :, :, :, : :, :, : : : : : :, perfect : :, :, period : :,, : permanent : : :,, : :, : permissible : :, :, :,, : :,,,,, :,, permit : permits : person : pervasive : petition : Petitioner :, park's : : :,,, : :,, : : : parks : :,, Petitioner's : part : :, : : :,,,, : : : :,, : : : : : :, : :,, : :, : places : : : phrase :, piece : piecemeal : place : : :, : plain :, :, :, plan :, :, : : plans :, : : : please : : : :,, :, :, plenary : : : :,, plenty : :, :,, pockets : : : : point : : : :, : :, : :,,, :,, : :, : : pointed : policeman : pollution : portion : : :, : : :, : portions : position : : : : P P : : : : p.m : page : : : : : pages : paragraph : park : : : : : :, :, :,,, :,, :,, :, :,, :,,,, : :, : :, :, :,, :,, : : :, : :,,, particular : : :, :,,,, : :,, :,, : :, :, : :,,, passing : :, : pause :, :, : people : : particularly : parties : parts : pass : passed : :, numbering : : :, : : : : nonpublic : native :, :, :, :, navigable :, : :,,,, : :,,, :, : : : :,,, NPS : : :, : :, : :,, numbers : : : : :,,, : : :,, notice :, O : : : navigation :, objecting : objection : : : O : navigationable : navigational : :, : : : obtain : occur : occurring : necessary :, OFFICIAL : :, :, :, : need : : : : : oh : : oil : : : okay : : :, :, : needs : : Olympic :, once : : ones : opportunity : Neither : never : : : : : opposed : opposite : : : new : : : oral : :,, : : : : Ninth : : : orally : Alderson Reporting Company proposed : proprietary : protect : : put : : : : reason : : : : :, Official purpose :,, : : : : : purposes :, purposive : pursuant : : really : : reads : ready : real : putting : : reasons : : : Q question : : : REBUTTAL : : reconsideration : : :, :, : : : : redefine : : : : reflected : :,, :, Refuge : record : questions : : reg :, :, : : quick : regard : : quite :, : regardless : : quo : quote : : : : : : quoted : : : regime : REGIONAL : Register : regs :, regulate : : Page  : :,, : :, : :,, : :, :, : : : :, :, :, : : :, : :, : :, : :, : : : : : :, regulations : : :, : : : :, : :,, :, :, :, : : : : : :, : : : :, : : : : : :, regulatory : : :, : : : : protecting : : : possesses : possible : power : : :, : : : practical : predecessors : preexisting : preliminary : premise : prescribe :, : : presented : preserve :, : :,,, property : : : : : protection : : : : : protections : :,, prove : provide :, : : provided :, provides : provision : Presumably : prevent : primarily : primary : principally : prior : private : : :,, : : : : :,, : : : : : :, : :,, public :, : :,, : : : : : : : : : : :, : : : : :,, : :, provisions : R :, relaxed : RACHEL : : : rapidly­expanding reject : relating : : : : : : :,, quoting :,, : :,,, :, : : : :, : :, : : :,, :, :, rely : :, : :,,, relying : : remain : : :,, : remainder : : : : : remaining : removes : : : : Repeat : reply : report : : : : : represents : : : reproduce : : :,, :,, : : R : :, :, :,, : : :,, : : : :, : :, :,, : : : :,, : : : reaches : :, :, :, :, : :, : : : :,, : : : : regulation : : require : : :, : : : :, : : : : :, reading :, reservation : reserve : :, rationale : reach : : regulates : regulating : :,,,, : :,,, read : :, regulated : : privately : : problem : : :, problems : process : prohibit :, : prohibits : promulgate : promulgated : : :, proper : : Alderson Reporting Company Official :, : says : :,, :, : :, :, : :, seeking : selections : : self­sufficiency : : Senate : : send : sense :, : : : : sentence :, road : ROBERTS : : : :, : : : :, : :,, : : :,, : : : : : : sent : :, :, :, : : :,, : : : rule :,,, Scalia :, : : : : : : : : :, :,,, : : : : :, : : : : Page  :, :,, : : set : : sets : : setting :, : Settlement : : : : shore : show : : :, reserved : : : :, : residual : resolve : : : respect : : : : Respondents : : : response : rest : : restrictive : result : : : : : retain : : revised :, ridiculous : : satisfied : saying : : : : : satisfaction : :,,, : : : :, : :,, : : : River's : rivers :, : :,,,, : : : : : : :,,, :,, : see :, : : : : : : : :, :, : : : : : : : : : : : : Service's :, : : : :, : : : : SOTOMAYOR :, : : : : : : : Service.' : : Solicitor : : somebody : sorry : : :, :, : :,, : :, : : : : servitude : : sort : Alderson Reporting Company : : : : :,, :, : :, : : :,, :,, : :,, : : : : : : : rules :,, :,, : : : : : : : Scalia's : : : : : scenic :,, :,, : : : :, : ruling :, right : :, : : : : : : :, : : : : :, :,, : :, :,, : :,,, :,,, : : : :, : runs : : : : : RUTH : : :, :, rights :, : : : : : : :, : : run : running : :, S S : : sanctioned : sand : ring : river : : : school : scope : second :, : : : : : : : : : :,, :, : : seconds : Secretary : : :, Secretary's : section : : : side : : :,,, :,, : significant : :, :, simple : : :, : : : :, :, :,, : : : : simultaneously : : simply : : situated : Skip : slightly : : smack : small : smoke : : snow : social : sole : solely : : :, :, :,,, :,,, :,,, : :, : : :, :,, : : :, : : separate : seriously : Service : : :,,, :, :,, : :,, :,, : : :,, :, : :,,,, :, :, : : : :, : : : : :, : : : : :, :, : :, :, :, : : :, :,,, : :,, Official : subtitle : suddenly : sufficient : suggesting : :, : : : : : : :, : :, :, :,, : : : :, :,, : : :,, :,, :, :, :, suppose :, : :, : :,, : : :, supposed : supporting : supports : : : : : : : statutes : :, Supreme :, sure :, : :, : statutory : step : : stop : stopped : stops : strained : strange : stream : streams : : stretch :, : :,, :, :, : : : : : : :,, : : sought : sovereign : : sovereignty : : special : specific : : : : : : :, : : : specifically : : spent : spread : stack : stand : start : starting : State : : : :, : surely : surround : surrounded : : : : system :,,, :, : : :, :, : : :, T T : :,,, : : tailored : take : : :,, : : : : : : : : takes : talk :, : telling : tempted : term : : terrible : test : text : :,, :, : :, Thank : : : :,, :,, : :, theory : thing : : : : things : : : : : : : think : : Page  : : :,, :,,,, :,,,,, :, : :, titled : today : tone : top : totally : tougher : transforms : travel : traverses : treat : treated : : tried : : : trilogy : true : : trying : : turn : two : : :, : : : : :, :,, : trumps : :, :, :,, :, :, : :,, : :,, :,, : : : :,,, :,, :, :,, : : : : :, :,, :,,,, :, : U : :, : : : : :, : : : :, type : :, U.S :, : :, : U.S.C : : : : : : : Uh­huh : : : : unaffected : unambiguously : understand : : : : :, : : : : : : : strip : : stripped : :, :, :, : : strips : : : : : stronger : : : : : stated : statehood : : : statement : : :, :, statements : states :, : stumbled : Sturgeon : : : : : : subject : :, : :, : :,, : : : : :, :,, : : submerged : : :,, : :, : :, : : : : : : : :,,,, :, : : status : statute : : submitted :, subsidiary : substantial : third :,, : : : : thought : : : talking : : : talks : : : tell : : three : : throw : tidal : time :, : : : : times : : title :,,, Alderson Reporting Company Official : : : : understanding : valid : validly : valley :,,, versus : understands : view : understood : X :,, : :,, : x :, : : : Y :, :, :, :, Yeah : : :,,, years : : : : : : uniformly : unique : unit :, : villages : violates : voice : Voting : W way : :, :, : : : : : ways : : : Yosemite : :,,,,, : :, : : Yukon : Yukon­Charley Page  : : : : : : : : : : : : : ­year : : : : : : : : walk : : We'll : :, :, :,,,, :,,,,, :,, : :,, : :,, : wanted : : :,, want :, :, :, : : : : : : : : wants :, : : : : :, :, :, : : : : : we're : :, United :, : :,, : : : :,, : : : : : : : units :, : :, : : :,, : :, : :,, :, : :, : unmistakable : unnavigable : unusually : use : : : : : :, : : usually : usufructuary : :, V v : : : vaguely : : Washington : : :,, wasn't : : Watch : water : : : : : : : :, : :,, :, :,, :,, : :, : :, waters :,,, : :,,,, :, : : : : :, :, :, :, :, : :,, :,, : :, :, : :,, : : : : : : :, :,, : : : we've : : Wednesday : well­settled : weren't :, whoa : wild :,, Wildlife : win : : winning : won : wood : word : : : :,, :,, : : words : : : : : worth : wouldn't : : : : write : : written : : : : : :, wrong : : :, :, : : : : :, : a : (n) : a : Z : . : .(b) : : : : : : : (d) : : :, :, : (c) : : : :,, :,, : :, : : : : : : : : : : :, : : : : : : : .(c) : ­ : : : ­ : : : : : : : a : : : : : : : : : : : : ­page : : a : :, : : (b) : Alderson Reporting Company 