 Official        IN THE SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES        ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ x                                  AVONDALE LOCKHART,                  :             Petitioner                : No. ­         v.                          UNITED STATES.                      : : ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ x                                                         Washington, D.C.                         Tuesday, November ,                  The above­entitled matter came on for oral       argument before the Supreme Court of the United States         at : a.m.   APPEARANCES: EDWARD S. ZAS, ESQ., Assistant Federal Defender, New           York, N.Y.; on behalf of Petitioner.      ANN O'CONNELL, ESQ., Assistant to the Solicitor General,           Department of Justice, Washington, D.C.; on behalf of           Respondent. Alderson Reporting Company Official                                    C O N T E N T S ORAL ARGUMENT OF                                     EDWARD S. ZAS, ESQ.     PAGE    On behalf of the Petitioner                           ORAL ARGUMENT OF   ANN O'CONNELL, ESQ.      On behalf of the Respondent                           REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF   EDWARD S. ZAS, ESQ.         On behalf of the Petitioner                           Alderson Reporting Company Official                                       P R O C E E D I N G S                                            (: a.m.)              CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: We'll hear argument       first this morning in Case ­, Lockhart v.        United States.              Mr. Zas.               ORAL ARGUMENT OF EDWARD S. ZAS                     ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONER                 MR. ZAS: Mr. Chief Justice, and may it         please the Court:               This case concerns the ten­year mandatory      minimum prison sentence that Section (b)()      sometimes requires Federal judges to impose.                  The statutory language in dispute reserves      the severe punishment for a defendant with a prior State            conviction for an offense relating to any kind of sexual          abuse involving a minor or ward. Because Petitioner's          prior offense did not involve a minor or ward, the           statute's mandatory minimum penalty does not apply to        him.             JUSTICE GINSBURG: Suppose the conviction      had been, under Federal law, the ­­ the conviction for          sexual abuse of an adult and we have the same question:           Does the mandatory minimum apply?                   I take it if it had been under Federal law,         Alderson Reporting Company Official then the mandatory minimum would apply.                  MR. ZAS: That's correct. If the conviction         had been under Chapter A of Title XVIII, which covers          sexual abuse offenses, then it would trigger the        mandatory penalty. But Congress, in this statute, since         the time it was first enacted in , has never sought           to create symmetry or parity between the Federal        predicates and the State predicates.                 This may be most clear now in       Subsection (b)(), where you can see that a prior          Federal conviction for sex trafficking of anyone, which        is a violation of Section , the corresponding State          analogue, is textually limited to sex trafficking of        children.             So this decision to treat prior State and        Federal predicates differently is inescapable, and it's       been true ever since the first statute.                               So from ­­   JUSTICE KENNEDY: I ­­ I don't ­­ why ­­ why             is it in this case ­­ it ­­ it does seem to me that              Congress, eight years later, when it wrote the ­­ the          second statute, used the ­­ the ­­ the same style and           that this very much favors the government. But then you           say that that's inapplicable, because?                 MR. ZAS: Because when this language was        Alderson Reporting Company Official first added ­­ first, it was added in .                                 JUSTICE KENNEDY: Yes.    MR. ZAS: The Federal predicates. At that         time there were still no State law predicates at all.                      In , when the language was first       introduced, and it was then introduced in Section ­­        Subsection (b)(), which applies to the distribution and        receipt offenses, even then the penalty for simple        possession of child pornography was the only Federal        predicate.             So someone in Mr. Lockhart's position at       that time would not have faced the mandatory minimum         penalty even if people who ­­ who committed the         distribution offenses would or even if ­­ even if he had           a conviction for ­­ under Chapter A.                   So ­­ and then in , when this language         in dispute was then added at the government's urging to          Subsection (b)(), even at that time Congress clearly        wasn't aiming for parity because then they added a new           Federal predicate, Chapter offenses, which are       violations of the Man Act: Transportation for illegal         sexual activity.              But at that time it didn't add any State         law ­­ State offense analogue for that offense.                    This has continued up to the present day.        Alderson Reporting Company Official So in , there were amendments to add the obscenity          offenses, the Federal obscenity offenses in Chapter        to the list of Federal predicates, but no corresponding         State crime for obscenity offenses.                 The ­­             JUSTICE GINSBURG: How do you say it works         now for the manufacturing and distribution offenses? We         have your position on the possession ­­ well, you said          there's a disparity between a Federal conviction and a           State conviction. How about a conviction, either the          manufacturing or distribution?               MR. ZAS: Yes. So ­­ so that offense is           covered by the different provision of Section (e).        That's the penalty provision for the much more serious         crime of actually using minors or children to produce         this material.              The language in (e) as amended in        is ­­ it does seem to track, to qualify the predicates           to include State­law abuse offenses that involve adults        as well as children. But that's because there's an          important textual difference between Section (e) and       the statute we're talking about.                 So if you go back to Section (b)(),        you'll see an important textual point here, which is the          word "or." This may be easier to follow if you actually            Alderson Reporting Company Official look at the statute if you don't have it open in the            statutory appendix to the blue brief at pages ­­ at          page A. You'll see that the list is written as           aggravated sexual abuse, sexual abuse, abuse of       sexual ­­ I'm sorry, or abusive sexual conduct involving         a minor or ward or a bunch of other offenses.                       The "or" before abusive sexual conduct would       not be there on the government's reading. That is, if           abusive sexual conduct involving a minor or ward were an           independent stand­alone offense, the "or" does no work.        It's unnatural to be. Then the list would just read,           aggravated sexual abuse, sexual abuse, abusive sexual       conduct involving a minor or ward, or ­­ and it would            continue.             JUSTICE ALITO: Well, there's another      possible explanation for that, because the last item in         the list itself involves a great many ­­ itself involves           a list. So the second "or" could be a substitute for a              semicolon.             But let me ask you another question about        the language that you just read. As I understand your            argument, this provision would apply to sexual abuse        involving a minor and also abusive sexual conduct         involving a minor.                Is there any difference between those two       Alderson Reporting Company Official things?                         both in?              MR. ZAS: No, Your Honor. We ­­        JUSTICE ALITO: So why did Congress put them         MR. ZAS: Well, because I think the first          point here is it must be for the same reason it used            aggravated sexual abuse at the beginning of the list,         which ­­ which I think both sides agree does no           independent work. It's already covered.                  JUSTICE ALITO: Well, there's something that       jumps out. It's a strange list, aggravated sexual          abuse, sexual abuse. Sexual abuse would include        aggravated sexual abuse. So that seems to be ­­ the           reference to aggravated sexual abuse seems to be        redundant. And abusive sexual conduct, if understood in         ordinary ­­ in the terms of ordinary language, does seem          to duplicate sexual abuse.                 But there's an explanation that jumps out,      and that is that this ­­ almost this precise terminology          appears in Sections , , and . And in those           provisions, all those terms are defined so that they         mean something different.               So it seems to jump out at the reader that          that's what Congress was doing in this list.                    Why is ­­ what is wrong with that?        Alderson Reporting Company Official             MR. ZAS: Well, first, if you go back to the           time this ­­ this language we're talking about was first          added in , that Congress not only knew how to ­­ how            to do what Your Honor is suggesting, that is, to be           tracking the Federal predicates exactly. Because in a         different provision, the provision that became (c),       it did exactly that. It ­­ it describes State offenses           whose conduct would constitute a Federal crime if         committed within Federal jurisdiction.                So they didn't do that here, and they didn't         do it again when they added the particular language in           to (b)()again.               CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: I'm sorry, I don't         follow that. I ­­                             MR. ZAS: Yes.    CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: As I see it, they          did, as Justice Alito said, track pretty much exactly         , , and in developing the list that they ­­          they add ­­ that's before us today. I didn't understand            your response.              MR. ZAS: Mr. Chief Justice, there are        really two responses. One, the one I gave to Justice            Alito is that this Congress, in and ', knew how           to track when they wanted to track. They did so           explicitly in other provisions of the same legislation.        Alderson Reporting Company Official In , the other provision was (c). In , the           other provision was (b). So it knew ­­ it knew how            to do it, and didn't do it, and has never done it.                        JUSTICE ALITO: Well, it could have done it         more clearly. That's certainly the answer to this whole          case. They could have handled this issue a lot more            clearly.             But that is the ­­ the idea that they were          picking up the definitions in the Federal provisions is         one explanation for this rather strange ­­ this list.         The other makes the list terribly redundant, and I         haven't heard your explanation as to why they would do          that.             Why include both sexual abuse and aggravated       sexual abuse? Why include sexual abuse and abusive         sexual conduct?                          MR. ZAS: Two responses, Your Honor.       First ­­ and this goes to the Chief        Justice's question as well ­­ this list does not track          the Federal predicates as precisely, I think, as some          have suggested. The Federal list of predicates has four          crimes, sexual ­­ aggravated sexual abuse, sexual abuse,        sexual abuse of a minor or ward, and abusive sexual           contact. If Congress had meant to track those, they          surely would have used the same four­prong list. They          Alderson Reporting Company Official didn't do that. Instead, they used a different term,           "abusive sexual conduct."               JUSTICE KENNEDY: I don't understand how        that answers the redundancy question. There's       redundancy in both interpretations, but much more in        yours than in the government's.                 MR. ZAS: Well, I ­­ I disagree with that.            I think the government reads the modifying clause out of          this statute in terms of doing any operative work at          all. But ­­ but let me respond ­­                    JUSTICE KENNEDY: I'm not sure how your        answer was responsive to Justice Alito's redundancy       question.             MR. ZAS: It wasn't. But that's the second          part of the answer.                The redundancy here was meant to go very        broadly, to pick up, not the Federal predicates, but any          terms or crimes that the States might create.                    So we cited this in the yellow brief in         reply. You'll see that the States call sexual abuse a           variety of different things, including aggravated sexual       abuse of a minor, sexual abuse of a minor, abusive            sexual misconduct. So Congress is using these redundant         terms as it sometimes does to emphasize inclusiveness.        Whatever the label is, Congress wanted to protect        Alderson Reporting Company Official children by picking those up.                 But it limited. It limited the reach of the          terms by setting a bright line floor. And that floor            was at children. The statute, after all, its principal          purpose as its title, as the title of Chapter          suggests, is about protecting against sexual      exploitation and other abuse of children.                  JUSTICE KAGAN: Mr. Zas, is it possible when         you read these three terms, as you say, Congress might          have meant to be just trying to pick up every          conceivable State statute it could think of. But it's          possible also to think of these as the aggravated sexual          abuse is the worst offense; the sexual abuse is the          medium offense; and the abusive sexual conduct is        actually somewhat a more minor offense, in other words,          might include things that are not sexual abuse        themselves. Let's say indecent exposure or something        like that.              And if you understand the provisions in that        way as sort of going from the top to the bottom and            meant to pick up everything, then it would seem that the           involving a minor or ward really ought to refer to all            of them. Right? That there's no reason why the           involving a minor or ward would ­­ would refer only to            the most minor offenses as the others.       Alderson Reporting Company Official             MR. ZAS: Well, I think ­­ I think Your            Honor makes a good point. We have not been able to ­­                         JUSTICE KAGAN: Maybe I said that wrong. I           think I said the exact opposite of what I meant.                        (Laughter.) JUSTICE SCALIA: It makes sense to me,                    though.             (Laughter.)                         JUSTICE KAGAN: What?    If you read ­­ if you read them going ­­         going down, right ­­ well, what do you think would          follow?             (Laughter.)             What do you think would follow from that        understanding of this list?                MR. ZAS: Well, Your Honor, we have tried to          figure out what ­­ what in the world the difference is           between sexual abuse and abusive sexual conduct when you         give these terms their ordinary meaning. There is no          meaningful difference. Sexual abuse, as ordinarily       defined, is just the misuse, physical or nonphysical, of         another ­­             JUSTICE KAGAN: But just presume with me        that abusive sexual conduct is supposed to be ­­ is          supposed to include some things that sexual abuse would         Alderson Reporting Company Official not.                         What do you think follows from that?       MR. ZAS: Well, again, first, even with that         assumption, you have this prefatory language to the list         here, "relating to," which this Court has described ­­        has defined, has interpreted, to be very broad. It only           means "to stand in some relation to."                   JUSTICE SCALIA: When I think ­­ what I          think you would say is that if it's in descending order           like that, you don't have to make the third one, which           is already less than the second, which is less than the           first. You don't have to make the third one a teeny,             teeny, teeny third one by tagging on children only to          the third and not to the other two.                    It seems to me much more regular to assume,         as you do, that the limitation to children applies to          all three of these descending crimes. And ­­ and isn't           that the answer?                                       MR. ZAS: Yes, Your Honor.      JUSTICE SCALIA: Your answer.     MR. ZAS: It ­­ it is the answer. And ­­           and it is essentially an instance of the principle that          has ­­ that has come to be known as the series           qualifier.             JUSTICE SCALIA: But ­­ but the ­­ the         Alderson Reporting Company Official problem with that is ­­ maybe I'm wrong, but I think you             have conceded that there is no difference between the         last two, that it ­­ it's ­­ it's not descending. I            mean, it's ­­ it's Justice Kagan who's suggested that         abusive sexual conduct could mean exposure, for example,        indecent exposure, which would probably not fit the        second ­­ the second term. Haven't you conceded that          the two are the same?                 it ­­                         MR. ZAS: Yes, we have, but we don't view          JUSTICE SCALIA: What did you do that for?         MR. ZAS: We do not view it as ­­ we don't            view it as a concession. We have allowed for the            possibility, as ­­ as Justice Kagan, I think, is trying           to do, of trying to come up with some fine distinction           in meaning between the last two terms, but whether there          is or isn't a little bit of daylight between those           terms, it's all overcome by the terms "relating to."         Anything relating to one is going to relate to the          other.             And pity the poor district judge who would        have to decide in cases around the country, does this          offense relate to sexual abuse, in which case on the          government's reading, it doesn't matter whether a minor         or ward was involved; or does it relate to this other           Alderson Reporting Company Official category of abusive sexual conduct, which as far as we          can ­­             CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: But just to be        clear, it's abusive sexual contact, right?                  MR. ZAS: Not in our list. That's the          language from ­­                          CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: (e)?     MR. ZAS: ­­ the Federal predicates. The         separate crime in is abusive sexual contact.                                CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: I see.       MR. ZAS: Our list is abusive sexual        conduct. As far as we can tell, no one has ever            explained what in the world the difference is.                    JUSTICE BREYER: Well, we might be ­­ when         did they write? We're looking at, call it "your          section," which is (a)(); is that right? Or what is           it? It's ­­ for the three things in it. The one you're              interested in is ­­ let's ­­ I don't want a name for it.                                                               MR. ZAS: Yes. It's ­­      JUSTICE BREYER: I call it "your section."         MR. ZAS: It's the penalty provision.       JUSTICE BREYER: All right. I'm going to         call it "your section."                            MR. ZAS: You can, Your Honor.       JUSTICE BREYER: Your section.     Alderson Reporting Company Official             Then think of several other sections, which       are the one I hadn't thought about which Justice Alito           raised. That's really suspicious the way that looks         there. , , . Now, when you pull up , , ,              law or written before the relevant parts of your section          were written.              MR. ZAS: They were, Federal predicates       prior to ­­              JUSTICE BREYER: Okay. If that's so ­­ and          I don't know if this helps you or hurts you, but it            seems to me that there is a ready­made right there for a             drafter explanation of why he uses these words. Because          we first look to , and that's aggravated. And then we            look to , and that's sexual abuse without aggravated.         And conduct is just the same as contact, but the drafter           is thinking maybe we should go a little bit bigger.           Now, the difficulty is in each of the sections I've          mentioned, there is a special related section for         children.             So the difference between the two for adults        is the nature of the force requiring a person to perform            a sexual act. A threat of violence, et cetera. That's             one. Right?               And then the next section, abuse, it can be         some other kind of threat. Then we get to the way it             Alderson Reporting Company Official deals with children, and it deals with children under         the ­­ under . That's one. And it deals to .               That's the next. And then we have a section called            contact, and that has to do with sex acts basically that           really weren't sex acts but for a certain kind of           conduct which is defined. All right.                   So I read this, I say, hey, that's what they            picked up. They just ­­ a drafter just picked it up and              changed a little bit, but that's what he had in mind.            Then the question is: Your question. And in your           favor, I think, is the fact that each of these earlier            sections does have a special section dealing with         children under the same number.                 Now, don't tell me I'm right if I'm not         right, but that's what I suddenly saw when Justice Alito           asked his question. Just tell me your reaction.                                 MR. ZAS: Well ­­    JUSTICE SCALIA: You're not going to tell        him he's right.               (Laughter.)                         MR. ZAS: I wouldn't do that, Your Honor.          The courts of appeals that have addressed       this precise question, just ­­ just so it's clear, none          of them ­­ they've all rejected the idea that I ­­ that             I think starts the premise here, which is that Congress          Alderson Reporting Company Official meant to ­­ meant for courts to interpret these terms by           reference to the Federal predicates. In fact, that's         the government's position here as well.                  So the parties are on common ground in        saying that these weren't meant to track the Federal         predicates. And as I pointed out earlier, Congress not           only knew how to do it when they wanted to, they did it             in these two pieces of legislation in ' and '.                      Now, it's true that these terms existed in        the Federal predicates before they were added to this         section. But they also exist all around the country in           the States. So Congress wasn't ­­ wasn't trying to           track them. It could have just said, any State offense           that would be a violation of Federal law if ­­ if in             Federal jurisdiction. It ­­ it ­­ it didn't do that.                       It was recognizing that States do all kinds        of things. And it's using these terms to say, anything           relating to it. It doesn't have to even be sexual           abuse; it just has to relate to sexual abuse. But           because that could pick up misdemeanor sex offenses        around the country, committed only against an adult.                    Public lewdness would be an example.      That ­­ that crime, we sited one statue in the briefs.           That's ­­ the statutory maximum is days in jail. But            if that were picked up, suddenly someone who is in          Alderson Reporting Company Official Federal court with their first offense, the first        Federal offense of possessing child pornography, is       suddenly going to have their sentence go ­­                   JUSTICE ALITO: But your ­­ your argument is         that it is just a coincidence that Congress came up with            this list of three terms that are redundant and that          just so happen to be almost exactly the same three terms           in the same order that appear in the Federal provisions.                      MR. ZAS: No, I ­­ I ­­ I don't mean to say                that. It's ­­ it's not a coincidence. Congress would            naturally use terms that it is familiar with, that are          in the Federal ­­ the Federal ­­ Federal chapter, but          that's very different.               terms.                         different.             used ­­             JUSTICE SCALIA: They didn't use the same        MR. ZAS: That's ­­ that's right.       JUSTICE SCALIA: The third term is       JUSTICE ALITO: But they used ­­ they        JUSTICE SCALIA: Do you think it was an         accident that the third term was different?                   MR. ZAS: No. I think the court presumes           that when Congress uses a different term, it ­­ it acts            deliberately ­­ and I ­­ I think ­­         Alderson Reporting Company Official             JUSTICE ALITO: When they use "sexual abuse"        and "sexually abusive conduct," they were not ­­ they ­­         they had in mind the Federal provisions, but they didn't          want those terms in this provision to mean the same          thing as they mean in the Federal provision, even         though, according to you, there is no generally accepted         understanding of the difference between sexual abuse and        abusive sexual conduct.               MR. ZAS: That's right. That's right.        They ­­ they didn't.                Sex ­­ I'm sorry. Chapter , the chapter         that contains the statute, has its own definitional        section. There is no definition there of any of these           terms. The only potentially pertinent term that's        defined is the term "minor," which is defined        differently in this chapter than it's defined or used ­­                     JUSTICE ALITO: Sexual abuse is defined, and        abusive sexual contact is defined, are they not?                    MR. ZAS: They are ­­ they are defined in          Chapter A. But as Justice ­­ as Justice Scalia          pointed out, they didn't use abusive sexual contact.        They used abusive sexual conduct. So it ­­ it could be            viewed as, that's going broader, but with a floor. We            want to brightline it. If you commit any kind of sexual            abuse, not ­­ not only sexual abuse, but anything         Alderson Reporting Company Official relating to sexual abuse, you're going to face these         severe penalties, so long as it involves a minor or           ward. That's the focus. Congress was trying to protect           children, and to punish and deter those who would harm          them.             There is nothing in the history or the        understanding of these provisions at the time of        enactment to suggest that they were also focused on         sexual abuse ­­ State sexual­abuse crimes against       adults. Now, that's a serious crime. No one disputes            that. But it wasn't the focus of this legislation.                      JUSTICE KAGAN: But why would they be        focused on Federal sexual abuse involving adults but not         State sexual abuse involving adults?                 MR. ZAS: Because the Congress was        focused on a very specific problem that they identify.          And that's the link, the connection between child        pornography and other sex offenses against children.                   So that was their focus. And given that         focus and given that the other State law predicates in          this statute are also limited to ­­ to crimes against          children, they naturally limited these offenses as well        to children.              JUSTICE KAGAN: No, but the ­­ the Federal         predicate, the Section , I believe it is, does apply           Alderson Reporting Company Official to adults as well. So why would they be focused on            adults with respect to Federal offenses but not with         respect to State offenses?                MR. ZAS: Because, I think most importantly,         Congress controls the Federal ­­ Federal crime. It         creates them, it knows what they are, they're a finite           set, and it knows that those predicates are not going to           change without congressional action.                Once the national legislature has to      consider penal codes around the country which can         change at any time and can cover things that may relate           to sexual abuse or abusive sexual conduct, Congress        reasonably may have decided that it didn't want to sweep          that broadly, so it, again, created this floor.        "Involving a minor or ward" was the key phrase. And our             reading is the only one proposed that gives it some          operative work to do.                   I'd like to reserve the balance of my time      for rebuttal.              Thank you.              CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, counsel.                   Ms. O'Connell.               ORAL ARGUMENT OF ANN O'CONNELL                    ON BEHALF OF THE RESPONDENT                 MS. O'CONNELL: Mr. Chief Justice, and may        Alderson Reporting Company Official it please the Court:                This case involves two competing canons of       statutory interpretation, and there are four basic       reasons why we think the government's interpretation is        correct.             First, Petitioner's interpretation creates    an unexplained redundancy where the Court would have to         conclude that Congress created a list of three things,          two of which are the same.                  Second, our interpretation is consistent     with the only possible reading of Section ­­                   JUSTICE SCALIA: Excuse me. Let's do them         one by one.                On the first one, even under your      interpretation, two of the three are the same, aren't         they?             MS. O'CONNELL: Under our interpretation,      what ­­ what we've said is that the first category and           the third category are logically subsets of the more         general category of sexual abuse.                 JUSTICE SCALIA: Right.                MS. O'CONNELL: But there's a couple of         explanations for why Congress may have done that.                    The first is that, when they added these        State law predicates to the Section (b)() for the         Alderson Reporting Company Official first time in , there already were Federal        predicates on the list that included aggravated sexual        abuse, sexual abuse, and sexual abuse of a minor or           ward. So even though it may be true that Congress could            have covered everything it wanted to cover in the State          law crimes by just saying "sexual abuse," it would have          opened itself up to arguments if it had just said all of            those Federal crimes and then any State law relating to          sexual abuse, that those other types of sexual abuse         under State law were not covered.                  Especially with respect to the third      category, sexual abuse or abusive sexual conduct       involving a minor or ward, Congress made clear when it           included that third category that it was picking up         State law offenses where a person is deemed incapable of           consenting to sexual contact or sexual conduct, because        of their status as either a minor or a ward.                        So our interpretation can be explained.      There is redundancy, and we're not asking for just an ­­          a straight invocation of the canon against surplusage.        Both interpretations contain surplusage. But it's a        reason why it doesn't make sense to apply the         series­qualifier canon here, because it ­­                 JUSTICE ALITO: Why do you resist ­­ why ­­         why do you resist the argument that what Congress was          Alderson Reporting Company Official doing was picking up basically the definitions of the         Federal offenses that are worded almost identically? If         that's what they are doing, then it's understandable        what is meant by all three terms. If that's not what            they were doing, it's a strange coincidence.                    And not only is there redundancy, but       there's ambiguity about what is meant by sexual abuse as          opposed to abusive sexual conduct, and why they had to          put in aggravated sexual abuse in addition to sexual         abuse.             MS. O'CONNELL: Justice Alito, we ­­ we        don't think that Congress was trying to pick up the          exact definitions of the three Federal statutes. And we          think that's most clear, as Petitioner pointed out, by         the fact that there are other provision in this chapter          where Congress used different language when it wanted to         do so.              The most clear example is the recidivist       provision for the sexual abuse offenses.                  JUSTICE ALITO: Yes, they could have done it         more clearly, of course. The ­­ the statute is ­­ is            poorly drafted. You know, we give them a "D" for their             drafting of this statute.                But what is the difference between sexual       abuse and abusive sexual conduct? Putting aside the         Alderson Reporting Company Official definitions of those ­­ of those terms or similar terms          in Chapter .               MS. O'CONNELL: I don't think there is any          difference between those two terms.                 why ­­             And ­­ and Petitioner agrees, which is       JUSTICE ALITO: So why did they put ­­ why          did they do that?                            MS. O'CONNELL: I think because the ­­        JUSTICE ALITO: Just catchy phrases that       came to their mind?                MS. O'CONNELL: No. I think the last          category, "sexual abusive conduct involving a minor or         ward," was meant to ­­ to indicate and make clear that           Congress was picking up State offenses where a person is           deemed incapable of giving consent because they are a         minor or a ward. They are deemed incapable by the law             even though, under a generic definition of "sexual         abuse" that may apply to everyone ­­                  JUSTICE SCALIA: Ward ­­ a ward can't ­­         why ­­ why would you say a ­­ why would you add "ward"              if ­­ if that was the reason for it? Why wouldn't you             just say of "a minor"?     MS. O'CONNELL: Well, Congress added "ward."                   And ­­ Alderson Reporting Company Official JUSTICE SCALIA: I know. Why? That's what           MS. O'CONNELL: Right. Well, we think the         JUSTICE SCALIA: To achieve what ­­ what you                     I'm asking.              most ­­             say they were achieving, it would ­­ it would have          sufficed to say "minor."                                        MS. O'CONNELL: No, I don't think so.         JUSTICE SCALIA: No?    MS. O'CONNELL: A minor ­­ a ward is not            just a person who is a minor or a foster child, or a                person who's been placed under a guardianship because of          mental incompetence or something like that. Those        people are all wards, but as we've explained in our          brief, a ward also very clearly includes a prisoner, and            Congress would have known that.                 And the ­­ the    Federal sexual abuse of a ward provision refers         basically to ­­              JUSTICE SCALIA: But that ­­ that's not        somebody who could not ­­ who could not give consent.                                  MS. O'CONNELL: Under ­­    JUSTICE SCALIA: You're ­­ you're saying the        reason for it was they wanted to pick up people who           could not consent to the thing. But to do that, all            Alderson Reporting Company Official they had to say was "minor."                  MS. O'CONNELL: No ­­ no. I think that a ­­             a ward is also basically deemed incapable of giving         consent ­­             JUSTICE SCALIA: Prisoners ­­ prisoners are       deemed incapable of giving consent?                 MS. O'CONNELL: The law has the same sort of          operation, yes. It ­­ it deems the conduct abusive even           if it's consensual. The Section does that, the          Federal sexual abuse of a ward statute. And we've cited            in footnote a lot of State laws that prohibit the            same thing.              JUSTICE GINSBURG: And "concrete" would mean       that, if it was a prison guard and a prisoner ­­                                    MS. O'CONNELL: Right.    JUSTICE GINSBURG: ­­ even if the prisoner        said, "Yes."              MS. O'CONNELL: Exactly. That that would be         deemed abusive sexual conduct. It would be ­­                    JUSTICE KENNEDY: But a ward ­­ a ward could            also be a ­year­old person who is incompetent.                     MS. O'CONNELL: Correct. A ward could         certainly be an adult.                And I think this is a ­­ a key point that              Petitioner has never really answered is that Petitioner        Alderson Reporting Company Official is trying to say that there is this clear pattern that           Congress had when it was creating the ­­ these lists,          and that the Federal crimes can involve both adults and          minors, but it was always limiting the State law crimes          to crimes against children. And it just isn't the case.           And even under his interpretation, because "wards" are        included, there is at least some adult sexual­abuse        crimes against adults that are being swept up even if it           applies to all three categories.                 And also in Section (e), the ­­      the enhancement for child pornography production      offenses, the only way that you could read that         provision is to include sexual abuse offenses against        adults.             And so it's not the case that there is this          very clear pattern where Congress was only including        child victim counterparts to all of the Federal offenses         that it was putting on the list.                   JUSTICE KAGAN: Ms. O'Connell ­­                 JUSTICE GINSBURG: Is Petitioner right when       Petitioner says that it was the Department of Justice's         original view that involving a minor or ward, it          modified all three categories? That that was ­­ the          first position that the government took and then the         government changed?  Alderson Reporting Company Official             MS. O'CONNELL: No. I ­­ I ­­ I don't think               that that is an official position that the government         took. We never took that position in a brief. Any time              we were confronted with actually interpreting the       statute as a legal matter, we have contended that          involving a minor or ward applies only to the last           category.             from, then?              JUSTICE SCALIA: Where did you get that idea         Where did he get that idea? What ­­ what          had the Department said that ­­ that suggested the         opposite?             MS. O'CONNELL: There was the ­­ this letter         submitted in that the Petitioner cites where, when         the ­­ the author of the letter ­­ the ­­ the point of             the paragraph is to say, look, Congress, in the ­­ the           sexual abuse provision or the recidivist provision       for ­­ for receipt and distribution offenses in        (b)(), you have all these State law crimes that you          didn't include on the ­­ on the list of predicate          offenses for (b)(), the possession offenses, and we        think you should line them up.                  In summarizing that argument, the drafter of       the letter referred to them as "child molestation        crimes" or "child abuse crimes." It was an ­­ it was an             Alderson Reporting Company Official underinclusive, inaccurate, short ­­ it ­­ it wasn't        inaccurate. They do involve child molestation crimes.        But it was just a useful way of summarizing what was            there and what would have been most ­­                                           JUSTICE SCALIA: Surely it shows ­­      MS. O'CONNELL: ­­ for Congress.      JUSTICE SCALIA: ­­ that ­­ that an       intelligent person could think that that's what this        involved.                         MS. O'CONNELL: I ­­     JUSTICE SCALIA: I assume that the person         read this and ­­ and thought that that's what it meant.                       MS. O'CONNELL: And ­­ and, Justice Scalia,        I think that's why the canons of interpretation don't         get anybody a hundred percent of the way there.                      JUSTICE SCALIA: I agree. And what I worry            about is the rule of lenity. You have these dueling           canons, and you have a rule that when the government           sends somebody to jail for ten years, it has to turn           sharp corners. It has to dot every I and cross every T.              It has to be clear.                 And, you know, I ­­ we've been discussing         this dueling canons and so forth. My goodness, I have            no ­­ I have no assurance what the right answer is. But              I know that somebody could read this and think that it           Alderson Reporting Company Official means what the petitioner says it means. And if that's           the case, it seems to me the rule of lenity comes into            play. That's ­­ that's what concerns me most about this           case, not the dueling canons.                 MS. O'CONNELL: Justice Scalia, I think if         you read the text of the statute once, you may think, I            don't know what this means. It could go either way.           But if you just read the rest of the list of things that             Congress included and take a look at it, we think           there's four things that jump out that make clear that          involving a minor or ward only is modifying the last           category. The first is the ­­ the redundancy problem          that Petitioner's interpretation creates.                JUSTICE KAGAN: Well, could I ask about         your ­­ your basic theory as to that, which, if I           understand it, says the reason why we shouldn't worry         about the redundancy you create is because Congress just         wanted to make absolutely clear that the sexual abuse         was also sexual abuse involving somebody who couldn't        consent. That's basically your theory.                  And there is a very easy way to do that, and            it would have completely made this ­­ I mean, made this            a hundred percent clear. Congress would just have said          aggravated sexual abuse, sexual abuse, or sexual abuse        involving a minor or ward. And just by using the exact             Alderson Reporting Company Official same language, it would have been clear, but the         distinction was between sexual abuse and sexual abuse        involving a minor or ward.                   But Congress doesn't do that, right?     Congress changes the language of the third noun. And          that's what creates the puzzlement. And ­­ and so it           seems to me that your theory doesn't really cohere with          the fact that this third term ­­ although, nobody can          say exactly what it means that is different ­­ the third           term is linguistically dissimilar from the second one.                    MS. O'CONNELL: It is, but ­­ but under a          generic interpretation of sexual abuse, any generic       definition that a court has come up with, I think one             that is a typical one is sexual conduct that uses or            misuses or injures a victim so as to cause harm or            damage. They all include sexual conduct. And so          regardless of whether sexual conduct is ­­ you know,         under the Federal law, sexual conduct could be both a          sexual act or a sexual contact, anything that's defined          within the Federal provision. But the term "sexual         abuse" was already broad enough to cover abusive sexual         conduct.               I can't say that I know why Congress didn't         say "sexual abuse of a minor or ward" as opposed to            "abusive sexual conduct involving a minor or ward." But           Alderson Reporting Company Official I think the key part of it to focus on is the fact that              they use the term "involving a minor or ward." It's the             same category or category of people that they are trying          to pick up that's reflected in the prohibitions on         sexual ­­             JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Well, why not just say        ­­ drop the "abusive"? Just say "sexual conduct with a           minor or a ward"? Because now you have to deal with the              adjective "abusive." So how does that get you to          consent or no consent?                MS. O'CONNELL: I think Congress could have         done this without saying abusive, but, you know, the         Federal sexual­abuse statute of ­­ of a minor or ward is            called sexual abuse of a minor or ward. They also            include the word "abusive." I think it's just ­­ the            ambiguity really is that abuse could mean different        things depending on who the victim is. Something could          be abusive because it's done to or in front of a child             but not an adult. And so that may be ­­ it's not a              reason why Congress wouldn't ­­ needed to use the word          "abusive," but there ­­ there is a reason ­­ it is a             reason why there could be some daylight between the two          categories.             JUSTICE BREYER: What were the ­­ what were         the other three? You said there were four reasons. I            Alderson Reporting Company Official started where I think Justice Scalia did. Of course, I            might more often than he think that the canons don't          help us all that much. And this ­­ this is a poster              child, I think, for that proposition.                       And so you said, no, there are four things     here that show that this isn't ambiguous. You shouldn't          end up that way. Now, one was a redundancy, which I'm             not sure what it was, and then you didn't get to the            other three, which I'd like to hear.                               MS. O'CONNELL: Okay.    JUSTICE SCALIA: I apologize for that. I          jumped in on it.                                        MS. O'CONNELL: No apology necessary.      JUSTICE BREYER: No, it wasn't.      MS. O'CONNELL: The second reason why we        think the Petitioner's interpretation doesn't make sense       is because in the penalty provision for production        offenses Section (e), Petitioner agrees that the       only way you can read that penalty provision is to          include State sexual abuse offenses against adults,       because Congress worded it slightly differently. They        included all the same crimes, but the way that provision          is ­­ reads, it says, "State laws relating to aggravated          sexual abuse, sexual abuse, abusive sexual contact       involving a minor or a ward or sex trafficking of            Alderson Reporting Company Official children."             So it's no longer ­­ involving a minor or          ward is no longer a modifier that appears at the end of             a list. This is at page A of the appendix to the gray              brief.             And so there's only one possible      interpretation of the list of State sexual­abuse       offenses in Section (e), and there's two possible        interpretations of the ­­ the same three crimes in the          next provision. And so the Court would have a choice            between saying that those ­­ the State sexual abuse         offenses have different scopes in the two provisions.                    Third is that it ignores ­­ Petitioner's       interpretation ignores the clear parallel between the ­­       the three main categories of sexual abuse offenses in         Chapter A, the Federal offenses.                             JUSTICE BREYER: Yeah. And the other?        MS. O'CONNELL: That's the ­­ and the three         categories that it created for State sexual offenses.                                JUSTICE BREYER: Right. And the fourth.        JUSTICE SCALIA: Which is not a parallel         if ­­ if you read the word, right?                                            MS. O'CONNELL: It's not exactly parallel.       JUSTICE SCALIA: Contact is not conduct.       MS. O'CONNELL: I ­­ I think that's ­­ that            Alderson Reporting Company Official is debatable. I mean, there's ­­ there's sexual conduct           ­­            JUSTICE SCALIA: It's debatable that contact       and conduct are different words? That's not debatable.                     MS. O'CONNELL: Not that they're different       words. But I think even Petitioner points out that in            the abusive sexual contact provision, sexual contact       is ­­ they start out by calling it sexual conduct in           circumstances where it didn't amount to a sexual act.          It's all ­­              JUSTICE KAGAN: You're not suggesting this       is just a scrivener's error, are you? That it was meant             to be contact?               MS. O'CONNELL: I think the ­­ they both do           the same job. So I don't ­­ I don't know why it was                changed, but I don't think there is a reason why it's ­­                                     JUSTICE BREYER: Fourth, fourth.     MS. O'CONNELL: The fourth is that       Petitioner's interpretation would frustrate the purpose      of the statute because under the categorical approach,        it would exclude as predicates any sexual abuse crimes         that were committed against children if the defendant        was convicted under a generally applicable sexual­abuse        statute.             JUSTICE BREYER: Okay. So he'll say "or" is          Alderson Reporting Company Official in this one and it's not in the other one for a reason.              He'll say they're superfluous reading both ways. He'll         say that ­­ I can't remember the third ­­ but the fourth             he's going to say, yeah, it's underinclusive versus        overinclusive. Yours is it would be somewhat        under­inclusive for the reason you say, and you take         your reading, it will be overinclusive for the reason he          says.             So if we're at ­­ this is the only place          that ­­ if we are absolutely at equipoise, which I can't            say we are now, but I think it through ­­ if we are              absolutely at equipoise, before turning to the rule of         lenity, I would like your comment on my temptation to           say at least here, the legislative history helps. And          indeed ­­             say that.  JUSTICE SCALIA: I knew you were going to                      (Laughter.)                                     JUSTICE BREYER: Indeed ­­    JUSTICE SCALIA: I knew it.       JUSTICE BREYER: ­­ it isn't just a letter          from the Justice Department. It is that the report, the           way these are actually written is that a general idea is            given to a person whose job it is to draft. And that              drafter tries to put in words the general intention         Alderson Reporting Company Official that's been described, and the report is used to         describe what the general intention was. I'm not saying          a hundred percent, but very often with technical        statutes, that's how it works.                 So I read that report, and what do I          discover? A repeat offender with a prior conviction           under da­ta­da, or under any State child abuse law, or          law relating to the production receipt or distribution        of child pornography. And it is only two years later           after they pass that that the Justice Department writes         its letter noting that the provision they just passed         involved individuals with prior convictions for child       abuse. And recommending an enhanced penalty as well if          they had a prior conviction for sexual abuse of a minor.                         Okay. So I read that and said, short, but           clear. And that's what the drafter would have been          looking at when ­­ the first one, anyway ­­ working with           the staff of the committee when trying to translate         general intentions of senators and representatives into       actual language. And I think it's not contrary to           popular belief to say that senators and representatives        do hire staff to do such things and do not sit there            with pen and pencil thinking, where does the "or" go?                      Okay? So what is ­­ what is the Justice          Department's response to that?    Alderson Reporting Company Official             MS. O'CONNELL: I think there are two         things. The first is the response I gave before, which            is just that this may have been a useful shorthand way            to describe the conduct that Congress would have been         most concerned about, for the person writing the report         and for the Department of Justice trying to convince         Congress to add these State law crimes to the child          pornography possession recidivist enhancement.                And I think the other response is just that,          even if you think the letter is against us, you look at            what Congress actually did. And they created a ­­ a            provision that basically parallels the three Federal       offenses. They included many Federal offenses that can         involve adult victims. And then eight years later, when          they added State law predicates to Section (e), they         made very clear they understood the modifier to apply         only to the last category.                 JUSTICE SCALIA: Ms. O'Connell, you ­­ you        don't think Congress can leave it to its staff to decide           what a statute means, do you?                               MS. O'CONNELL: No.    JUSTICE SCALIA: Isn't legislative power      nondelegable?             MS. O'CONNELL: Right. We think the ­­ the          most important thing here is to look at the text of the            Alderson Reporting Company Official ­­            JUSTICE BREYER: You asked a really quite         broad ­­ I don't know what the , people over there            are doing, if ­­ if they're not entrusted by their          principals to write words on paper that would reflect         the general idea.                           You think they can't do that?      MS. O'CONNELL: Justice Breyer, I think        it ­­ as we explained in the brief, it ­­ it may have             just been a useful shorthand way to describe the most           serious conducts included in that provision.                  JUSTICE GINSBURG: Who is ­­ who is the         author of this?               CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: I don't know what         the hundred people ­­                           JUSTICE GINSBURG: Who is the author?       CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: ­­ are doing over        there if they're delegating everything to the staff.                    JUSTICE GINSBURG: This ­­ this ­­ this        letter that so much discussion has revolved around, who         was it in the Department of Justice that wrote?                     MS. O'CONNELL: It was the Acting Assistant        Attorney General Ann Harkins.                JUSTICE KENNEDY: Could you talk about the        rule of lenity? Does the rule of lenity apply with the            Alderson Reporting Company Official same force when the question is the substantive        definition of a crime as distinct from the penalty          that's attached?                          MS. O'CONNELL: The Court ­­     JUSTICE KENNEDY: It seems to me there's an         argument that it should apply equally, but have we         talked about that?               MS. O'CONNELL: I think the Court has         typically applied the same­strength rule of lenity to        both substantive provisions and penalty provisions.                  JUSTICE KENNEDY: That ­­ that makes a great          deal of sense. It ­­ other than that rule of lenity to             the extent it's based on notice, it seems to have          somewhat more force when it applies to the substantive         definition of the offense as opposed to the punishment.         But I ­­ you could argue it either ­­ either way.                        But have we ­­ have we talked about any         distinction?             MS. O'CONNELL: There has not been a        distinction in the Court's cases. There have been a few            times where criminal defendants have tried to say that         there should be a supercharged rule of lenity in a case             that's talking about mandatory minimums or maximums or        consecutive sentence. And the Court has resisted that.                     And I think this would be not a ­­ not a             Alderson Reporting Company Official good case for the Court to go down that path because           the ­­ the guidelines range for this particular criminal         defendant was to months. His minimum was .           It's not actually a huge difference. And under ­­ under            current law, the statutory maximum would have been the         same, regardless of ­­ of whether this enhancement        applied.             Justice Breyer has helpfully walked me      through all of my points; so if the Court has no further            questions.             JUSTICE KAGAN: Well, can I go back to          the ­­ to the language? You know, it's confusing          language. And I showed it to all my clerks and ­­ and              basically said how would you read it. And two came out            on one side, and two came out on the other side. But ­­             but I'm sort of left with this feeling that it ­­ we're            not in ­­ in a situation where there are dueling canons.            We actually might be in a situation where one canon           trumps the other.                 I mean, you have this last­antecedent rule,      and it's an important rule. But it gives way when a            certain ­­ when there is a certain quality to all the            antecedents when they're all parallel and when the last         modifier equally sensibly refers to them all, right?        And that that's a situation, so that series­qualifier         Alderson Reporting Company Official rule is in some sense a rule about when the           last­antecedent rule doesn't apply.                that.             So I guess I would ask you to comment on            MS. O'CONNELL: There ­­ I have a couple of            different responses.              The first one is that the context is the         most important thing. And it's not the case that the           Court hasn't applied the last­antecedent rule in cases        where the statute involves a list of parallel terms.                        I think the FTC v. Mandel Brothers is the        best example of that. There's a list of a purchaser,             consignee, factor, bailee, correspondent or agent, or       any other person who is engaged in dealing commercially         in fur products or fur.                 And the Court said it didn't make sense to         only apply this to a purchaser who is also dealing in            the ­­ in the fur products, and so we're going to apply            it only to the last antecedent. The series­qualifier         principle, you know, petitioner relies quite heavily on        the explanation in ­­ in Justice Scalia's book that goes          through all of the canons. And the book even says that            the series qualifier principle more so than others is         highly dependent on context and can be overcome if         something doesn't feel right about the way that it ­­         Alderson Reporting Company Official the statute reads when you apply it.                   And we think the clearest indication here       that it doesn't make sense for the qualifier to apply to           all three of the categories is that it ­­ it literally           renders categories B and C the same.                                 I'll ­­ I'll point out just one other thing.         Justice Breyer, you mentioned during the      Petitioner's argument that you noticed that each of the         Federal predicates, , , , have a provision         that applies to minors and wards. Section does          not.             JUSTICE BREYER: No. But it's followed by         what could be taken as. They just gave it a different             number; isn't that right? does, in fact, deal with           minors?             MS. O'CONNELL: is the sexual abuse of         a minor or ward provision.                             JUSTICE BREYER: Right.    MS. O'CONNELL: , aggravated sexual      abuse, has a special subsection dealing with very young          children. Section , the general sexual abuse crime,         does not include any specific for minors or wards.                     saw that.              JUSTICE BREYER: Yes, yes, yes, yes. I ­­ I            MS. O'CONNELL: All right. Thank you.        Alderson Reporting Company Official CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, counsel.       Mr. Zas, you have four minutes.                                         REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF EDWARD S. ZAS                     ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONER                 MR. ZAS: Justice Alito, Justice Scalia, and        Justice Breyer I think all echoed the same theme, which           is, at the very least, this statute is not unambiguously          correct, which is the standard language this Court used         in Granderson for when the rule of lenity must apply.                                  So under that rule ­­    JUSTICE ALITO: I don't think I actually          said anything about the rule of lenity.                   say ­­             MR. ZAS: No, no. Your ­­ Your Honor did           JUSTICE SCALIA: I don't think he ever         mentioned the rule of lenity.                 MR. ZAS: But he did say ­­ he did use the            word "ambiguity," and he did say that the statute was          poorly drafted. And I think ­­ I think we certainly             would agree that this is ­­ this is not a model of the              drafter's art, by any means. But ­­                   JUSTICE ALITO: Well, you ­­ you are making         an argument that an awful lot of this big book is ­­ is             subject to the rule of lenity because a lot of it is             very poorly drafted.   Alderson Reporting Company Official             MR. ZAS: Well, this is ­­ this is ­­ this           is not just poorly drafted. We ­­ both sides have gone            through all the canons, all the tools, legislative        history. And at the end of the day, as Justice Kagan            pointed out, you can read it reasonably both ways. But           we think as a matter of text we actually have the better             reading.             My colleague from the Solicitor General's      office conceded when she was up here that there is no           difference between sexual abuse and abusive sexual       conduct. So the parties agree on that, and yet we draw            radically different conclusions.               The government says the solution is to just        limit the modifier to the second term, but that doesn't          eliminate surplusage. It causes the entire modifying        phrase, the entire category, abusive sexual conduct       involving a minor or ward, to effectively drop out of           the statute.              Our solution is to say, give the       nonredundant portion of the statute involving a minor or          ward some meaning. Congress used those words for a          reason. And the reason was the problem they were          focused on, which is the danger to children.                    So the way to preserve effect for the ­­        that modifying phrase is to apply it to all three terms,           Alderson Reporting Company Official which makes perfect sense. If two of them mean exactly           the same thing, why in the world would Congress limit          only one to minors and children? They're synonyms. It           makes sense ­­              JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: My problem is, why would        they include adults as a predicate for the minimum in           Federal crimes but not in straight State crimes.                    MR. ZAS: Because ­­                JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: I know they have done it          in other situations.               MR. ZAS: Yes.                JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: But why here? If        they're worried about the abuse of children, why would         they not capture every conceivable person or every        conceivable abusive act towards kids?                 MR. ZAS: Well, in ­­ in addition to the          fairness and administrability problems we've identified,      Congress reasonably could have determined that people       who commit abuse offenses against adults, as bad as that          is, don't pose the same level of danger to children.                      JUSTICE BREYER: Well, she's saying why ­­       but they ­­ they do include the sexual abuse adult when           you're talking about prior conviction of a Federal         crime.             MR. ZAS: Yes.    Alderson Reporting Company Official             JUSTICE BREYER: And the answer, I guess,         has to be that you ­­ the drafters know what they're           getting into with the Federal crimes, and they have no          idea what they're getting into when they're dealing with          State crimes. Is that your response?                                MR. ZAS: That's ­­    JUSTICE BREYER: I'm not trying to put words         in your mouth. I want to know what ­­ that's what I              read in the ­­                           MR. ZAS: Your Honor, that's one answer.        JUSTICE ALITO: Let's take a ­­ an offense          as to which there isn't much ambiguity: Rape. All           right? Under the ­­ the ordinary meaning, why would          rape in a Federal enclave qualify; rape a few yards            away, perhaps, in State territory, not ­­ not qualify?                     MR. ZAS: Because Congress was not focused        on symmetry in that way. The ­­ the Federal predicates           were added by the Congress. They were ­­ they           were ­­ yes. They were made Federal predicates. The           later Congress, Congress, was the one that added         the State law predicates.                So it's not as if the same legislators are         making this decision at the same time: Should we cover           Federal and ­­ and ­­                Mr. Chief Justice, I'm sorry. I see my          Alderson Reporting Company Official light is on.                                                   CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, counsel.       The case is submitted.    MR. ZAS: Thank you.     (Whereupon, at : a.m., the case in the        above­entitled matter was submitted.)    Alderson Reporting Company Official Officialasking : : Assistant :, ambiguous : amended : amendments : amount : analogue : : assumption : Ann : : : assurance : assume : : : : attached : answer : : Attorney : : :,, author : : : :, answered : : AVONDALE : awful : antecedent : antecedents : anybody : anyway : apologize : apology : appeals : appear : APPEARANCES : appears : : appendix : : applicable : applied : : : B b :, : : back : : : bad : bailee : balance : based : basic : : basically : : : : : : : beginning : behalf :, : :, : : : apply :, : applies : : : : : : belief : believe : best : : : : better : : : : big : : :,, :, : : bit : : bigger : approach : argue : : blue : Page  : :, brief : : : : : : briefs : bright : brightline : broad : : : broader : broadly : : Brothers : bunch : C C : : : call : :, : called : : calling : canon :, : canons : : :, : : : : : capture : case :, : : : : :, :, : : : :, cases : : : catchy : categorical : categories :, : :, :, A act : : : : : Acting : a.m : : : able : above­entitled : action : activity : acts :, : actual : add : : : absolutely : :, abuse :, : : : : : addition : : addressed : adjective : administrability : :,,,, : :,,, added :,,, :,, : :,,,, :,, : :,, : :, : :, :, :,,,, :,,, : : : :,,,,, :,,,, : : : adults : : :,, : : :, : :,, :,,,, : :, :,,,, :, :, agent : : :, : :,, :,, : :,, : : : : : aggravated :, adult : : :,,, :, : : :, : : : : : : : agree : : abusive :,,, : : : : :, : :, : :,,, :,,,, : : : Alito : :, : : : : :, :,,,, : : : :, : agrees : : aiming : :, : : : : answers : :, :, : : argument : : book :, : :, :, : :, :, :,, : :, :, : : : : bottom : : : : :, : accepted : accident : achieve : achieving : Alito's : allowed : ambiguity : arguments : art : aside : : : : asked : : Breyer :,, category : : : : : :, :, :, :, : : :,, : :,, : : : : : :, : : cause : Alderson Reporting Company Alderson Reporting Company causes : certain : : : codes : cohere : coincidence : : : certainly : : : cetera : change :, changed : : comes : : colleague : come : : : comment : changes : chapter : :, commercially : : : : :,,, : : : : commit : : Chief :, :, committed : : : : : : :, : :, :, : : : child : : committee : common : competing : completely : : : : conceded :, : :, : : : :,, : conceivable : :, : children : : concerned : concerns : : concession : : :,, :, : :,, :, conclude : :, : : : : : :,, conclusions : concrete : conduct :,,, Official Congress :, convictions : : : : correspondent : :, :, convince : corners : : :, : : : correct : : : :,, :, :, :, :, : :, :, : :, : : :,, :,, : : : : :,, : :, :, :, corresponding : : :, : couple : : course : : court :, : counterparts : country : Page  cross : current : D D : : D.C :, da­ta­da : damage : danger : : : days : deal : : : dealing : : : : : counsel : : day : : daylight : : congressional : connection : consecutive : consensual : consent : :, :, : :, consenting : consider : consignee : consistent : constitute : contact : : : : : :, : : : : :,,, contain : contains : contended : context :, continue : continued : contrary : convicted : conviction :, : :, : :,, :, : : :, : deals :,, : : : debatable :,, decide : : :,, :, decided : :, : decision : : Court's : deemed : courts : : cover : : :, :, : : : covered : : :, covers : create : : : deems : defendant : : : defendants : Defender : : : created : : defined : : : : : :,,,, : creates : : : : creating : crime :, : : : : : : : : crimes : : definition : : : : : definitional : definitions : :, : delegating : : :, deliberately : :, :,,, :,, : Department : : : : : :, :, : : : : : : criminal : : Department's choice : circumstances : cited : : cites : clause : clear : : : : : : : : : : : :, : : : : clearest : clearly : :, : : clerks : : : : : : : :, : :, : : :,, : :, :, : :, :, :,,, : : :, controls : : : : : conducts : confronted : confusing : Alderson Reporting Company Official : drafter :, exactly :,, dependent : depending : descending :, drafter's : : : : : : describe : : : drafters : drafting : draw : : : duplicate : described : : drop : : describes : dueling :, deter : determined : developing : difference : : :, : : : : : : : : e : :, : earlier : : easier : easy : echoed : different : : E : : : : :, : EDWARD : : :,, : : : : :, : : effectively : eight : : : either : : effect : : : : explanation : : :, : : explanations : explicitly : exploitation : exposure : :, extent : F face : faced : fact : : : : : : : :, eliminate : emphasize : factor : enacted : fairness : enactment : familiar : enclave : far :, engaged : enhanced : favor : enhancement : favors : Federal : : differently : : : difficulty : disagree : discover : discussing : discussion : disparity : dispute : : disputes : dissimilar : distinct : distinction : : :, district : doing : : :,, :, dot : draft : drafted : :, : Page  : :, : General's : :,,, generally : feel : : : : : : : example : : feeling : figure : fine : finite : first : :, : : : exclude : Excuse : exist : existed : explained : :, : :, : :, : :, : :,, : : : : : : generic : : : getting :, GINSBURG : : :, : :,, give : : : : given :, : fit : floor :, : gives : : giving : :, go : : : : : : : :, goes : : focused :,, going : : focus :,,, : : : : : follow : : :, : : : : : : : : :, : good : : goodness : followed : follows : footnote : force : :, government : forth : foster : four : : : :, : : : government's : : : : : : : : : : four­prong : Granderson : fourth : : gray : distribution :, :, : : error : : : entire :, entrusted : equally : : equipoise :, Especially : ESQ :, :, : essentially : et : exact : : : front : :, : FTC : fur :,, further : :, :,, :,, :,, :,, :,, frustrate : : : : :,,,, :,,,,, :, :, :,, :, :, : : :, :, : : :, G G : general : : handled : happen : Harkins : :, :, :, : H great : : ground : guard : guardianship : guess : : guidelines : Alderson Reporting Company Official : : : :, issue : item : J jail : : job : : : : includes : including : : inclusiveness : incompetence : incompetent : indecent : : judge : judges : independent : jump : : jumped : jumps :, jurisdiction : : : indicate : indication : individuals : inescapable : injures : instance : intelligent : intention : harm : : he'll : :, hear : : heard : heavily : help : helpfully : helps : : hey : highly : hire : history : : : Honor : : : :, : : : : : huge : hundred : : : : : hurts : I idea : : :, : : : identically : identified : identify : ignores :, illegal : important :, : : : importantly : impose : inaccurate :, inapplicable : incapable : :, :, include : : :, : : : : : : : : :, included :, : : : intentions : interested : interpret : interpretation : :,,,, : : : : : : :, : interpretations : : : interpreted : interpreting : introduced :, invocation : involve : : : : : involved : : : involves :, : : : involving : : :,,, :, :, : : : : : : :, :, Page  : : :, :, :, :, : Justice's : : : :,, : : : : : : :, :, : : K Kagan : :, : :, :, : : : : : KENNEDY : : :, : : :, key : : : : :, kids : kind : : : : kinds : knew :, :, : :, : :, : : : : : : : :, Justice : :, : : : : : :, : :,,, : :,, : :,,, :,, : :, :, :,,,, know : : :, :, :,,,, :,,, :, :, :, : :, :, : :,,, knows :, : :,, : :, : :,,, : :, :, :, : :,, : :,, : :,, :, :, :,, :, :,,,, :, :, Laughter :,, :, : :,,, :,,,,, L label : language : : :, : : : :, : : : :, : :, : law :, :, : : : last­antecedent : :, known : : : : laws : : leave : left : legal : legislation : : : legislative : : : legislators : legislature : lenity : : : :, :,, : :,, let's : : : : letter :,, : : : : level : lewdness : light : limit : : limitation : limited : :, :, limiting : line : : linguistically : link : list : :,,, :,, : :,,,, : : : : : : : : : : :, : : lists : literally : little : : Alderson Reporting Company : medium : mental : mentioned : Lockhart : : Lockhart's : logically : long : longer :, look : :, minimum :, mind : : : : : : : : : : : : : : Official name : national : naturally : : nature : necessary : needed : never : : : : Page  parties : : particular : : : :,,,, : : : : :, :, : : parts : : : : pass : :, :, passed : : :, :,,,, :, : path : pattern :, pen : penal : penalties : penalty : : :, : : :, : :, once : : open : opened : operation : operative : pencil : people : : : : : : : opposed : : percent : : : : : opposite : : perfect : oral : :, : minimums : minor :, :, nondelegable : official : new : : office : nonphysical : Okay : : : :, : :,, : :, :, nonredundant :, : : : : notice : noticed : :,, : :, :, noting : : : : noun : : :, November : :,, :, number : :, : : : : :, : O looking : : looks : lot : : :, M main : making : : Man : mandatory :, : :, : : Mandel : manufacturing : : : : : maximum : : minors : : O : : : : misuse : misuses : minutes : misconduct : : : original : :,, : O'Connell : : order : : :,, : ordinarily : : : : ordinary :, :,, :, :, :, :,, : ought : :, :, : : : : :,, overinclusive : :,, : :, :, :, :, :,, : :,, : : : overcome : : : P material : matter : : misdemeanor maximums : model : mean : :, modified : : :, : modifier : : : : : : modifying : : :, : : : molestation : meaning : meaningful : means : :, months : : : : morning : : mouth : : meant : : :, : :,, :, : : : N.Y : N N :, : obscenity :,, offender : offense :, P : page : : : pages : paper : paragraph : :, : : parallel :, :,, : : :, : : parallels : parity : : offenses : :, part : : : : : pick : :, : : : : picked :, : perform : person : : : :, : :, : : : : pertinent : petitioner :, :, : : : :, :, : : : : : : Petitioner's : : : : : : : phrase : : : phrases : physical : Alderson Reporting Company : : prior :, : points : : poor : poorly : : prison : : : : :, qualifier : : : : : qualify : : picking : : prefatory : : : : premise : present : pieces : preserve : pity : presume : place : presumes : placed : pretty : play : please : : principal : point : : : principals : : : : principle : pointed : : :, : : popular : pornography : prisoner : :, prisoners :, : : : probably : : : portion : pose : position : : : : :, possessing : possession : : : : possibility : possible : : : : : : poster : potentially : power : precise : : precisely : predicate :, : : : predicates :,, :, :, : :, : : : :, : : : : : : : : : :, problem : : : : : problems : produce : production : : : products :, prohibit : prohibitions : proposed : proposition : protect : : protecting : provision :, : :, :, : :, :, : : :, : :,, : : : : : : : provisions : : : : : : : : :, Public : Official pull : punish : punishment : : purchaser :, purpose : : put : : : : : putting : : puzzlement : Q : quality : question : : : :, :,,, : questions : quite : : R R : radically : raised : range : rape :,, reach : reaction : read :, : :, : : :, :, : : :, : : : reader : reading : : : : : : : reads : : : ready­made : really : : Page  : : : : : : reason : : renders : repeat : reply : : : : report : :, : :,, : : : :, :, reasonably : representatives :, : : : reasons : : rebuttal : : : receipt : : : requires : requiring : reserve : reserves : resist :, resisted : respect :, recidivist : : : : respond : recognizing : Respondent : recommending : : : response : redundancy :, : :, : :, : : : : : : redundant : : : : refer :, reference : : referred : refers : : reflect : reflected : regardless : : regular : rejected : relate :,, : : related : relating : : :, : : : : : relation : relevant : relies : remember : responses : : : responsive : rest : revolved : right : : :,, : : :,, : : : : : : : : : : :, : : : :,, : ROBERTS : :, :,, : :, : : rule :, : : :, :,, : : :,,, :,,,, S S : :,, :, Alderson Reporting Company : sensibly : same­strength : sentence : : saw : : saying : : separate : : Official : : sexual­abuse : : : : : : : : series : : : : series­qualifier sexually : sharp : says : :, : : : : Scalia : :, : set : : : : short : : shorthand : serious : : : : : : setting : :,, : severe : : :, : :,,,, : : :, :,, : :, :, : :, :, :, : show : showed : shows : side :, : : : sides : : : sex :, :, : : similar : simple : sit : sited : situation :, sexual :, : : :,,,,, :,,,, :,,,, :,, : :,,,, situations : slightly : :,, : Solicitor : : :,,, :,,,, solution :, :,,,, somebody : :, :,, :, : : :, somewhat : :, :,, :,,,, sorry : : : :,, : : : :, : :,,,, :,,,, :,,,,, : :, : :, : : : :,,, :,,,, :,,,, staff :, :,, : : : :, :, :, :, stand­alone : : :,,,, standard : : : : start : :, :, started : SOTOMAYOR : :,, sought : special : : sort : : specific : stand : : : : Scalia's : scopes : scrivener's : second : : : : : : : : : : section : : : :,, :,,, :,, : : : : : :, : : : : : : : sections : : : : see : : : : : : : semicolon : senators :, sends : sense : : : : : : : :, Page  starts : State : :, suggested : : : suggests : summarizing : : : :,, : suggesting : : : : : :,, : : :, :, : : : : :, :, : : : : : : :, supercharged : : superfluous : Suppose : supposed :, Supreme :, sure : : :, :, surely : : surplusage : State­law : States :,, : statue : status : statute :,, : : : :, : : :, : : : : :, : : : :, :, statute's : statutes : : statutory : : : : : straight : : strange : : : style : subject : submitted : :, subsection : : : : suspicious : sweep : swept : symmetry : : synonyms : T T :, : tagging : take : : : : taken : talk : talked :, talking : : : : technical : teeny :,, tell : :, : : subsets : substantive :, ten : : temptation : : substitute : suddenly : : : sufficed : suggest : ten­year : term : : :,, : : :,, : : terminology : Alderson Reporting Company Official Page  : :,, viewed : : : :, violation : : : : :, : : violations : violence : :, : : : : worded : : words : : :, : : : : types : typical : typically : U unambiguously : under­inclusive : underinclusive : : understand : : : : : understandable : understanding : : : understood : : work : : : W walked : working : want : :, works : : : : : wanted : : : : : : : world : : : worried : worry : : ward :, :, worst : : : : : : wouldn't : : : : : :,, write : : :,,,, writes : : :,, writing : :,,,, written : :, : : : : :,, wrong : : :,,, : : : wrote : : :, : : unexplained : United :,, : wards : : :, x :, X terms :, : :, :, : :,, :,, :, :, :, : :,, : : terribly : territory : text : : : textual :, textually : Thank :, : : :, : third :,, : :, : :, :,, : : thought : : threat :, three : : : :, : : :, :, : : :,, : : : time : :,, : thing : : theme : theory :, : : : : : : : : :, : : : times : title : :, today : tools : : : : top : : : : :, : : : : think :, : : :, :, things : : track : :, : :, :,,,, :,, :, : :, :,, : : :, :,, :, :, :, :,, :, : : : :, :,, : : : :, : : :,, :, :, :, : : :,, :, : thinking : tracking : trafficking :, unnatural : : translate : Transportation : treat : tried : : tries : trigger : true : : : trumps : trying : : : : : : : : : : : Tuesday : turn : turning : two : : : urging : use :, : : :, : useful : : : uses : : : V v : : : variety : versus : victim : : : victims : view :,, : Washington :, XVIII : wasn't : : :, : : : way : :, Y yards : yeah : : years : : : :, :, :, : : : : : : York : : : : young : : : yellow : ways : : We'll : we're : : : : : : : we've : : : : : weren't : : word : :, Z Zas : :, :, : :, : : :, :, : : : : : : : :,, :, :,, :,, : Alderson Reporting Company :, :, : :, : : :, :,, : :,,, :,, : : : : : : : : : A : : : : A : : : : :,, : A : : ­ : : : : : : : : : :, : : )again : : : : : : : : (c) : : : :, : : : : : : : : : : : : : Official Page  :, : (e) :,, : : : : (b)() : : : (b)() : : : : (b) : : : : : , : ­year­old : :,, : :,, : :, : : : : : : : : Alderson Reporting Company 