Official          IN THE SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES      ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ x                                  SILA LUIS,                          :             Petitioner                : No. ­         v.                          UNITED STATES.                      : : ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ x                                                         Washington, D.C.                         Tuesday, November ,                  The above­entitled matter came on for oral       argument before the Supreme Court of the United States         at : a.m.   APPEARANCES: HOWARD SREBNICK, ESQ., Miami, Fla.; on behalf of           Petitioner. MICHAEL R. DREEBEN, ESQ., Deputy Solicitor General,          Department of Justice, Washington, D.C.; on behalf of           Respondent. Alderson Reporting Company Official                                    C O N T E N T S ORAL ARGUMENT OF                                     HOWARD SREBNICK, ESQ.    PAGE    On behalf of the Petitioner                           ORAL ARGUMENT OF   MICHAEL R. DREEBEN, ESQ.       On behalf of the Respondent                           REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF   HOWARD SREBNICK, ESQ.       On behalf of the Petitioner                            Alderson Reporting Company Official                                       P R O C E E D I N G S                                            (: a.m.)              CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: We will hear       argument next in Case ­, Luis v. United States.                     Mr. Srebnick.              ORAL ARGUMENT OF HOWARD SREBNICK                    ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONER                 MR. SREBNICK: Thank you, Mr. Chief Justice,        and may it please the Court:                  The Sixth Amendment has always recognized      the individual's right to spend his own money to obtain          the advice and assistance of counsel. At the time of           the adoption of the Bill of Rights, that was the core           right, a time when the right to appointed counsel had           not yet been established by this Court.                   We submit that the right to representation       by private counsel must allow a defendant to use assets           which she rightfully owns, assets over which there is no          dispute that she has good title, so that she may be           represented by the lawyer that she prefers.                   Monsanto?             CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: What do you do about         MR. SREBNICK: In Monsanto and in Caplin &         Drysdale, those were cases involving tainted funds, drug        money. Alderson Reporting Company Official             CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Right. So what is         the logic that says it doesn't violate the Sixth         Amendment if it's tainted funds, but it does if it's          untainted funds?              MR. SREBNICK: Mr. Chief Justice, the ­­ the         logic is that no one has a rightful claim to drug money.             No one can claim a valid property right in drug           proceeds. Ms. Luis is wanting to use assets that are           not drug money. They are her lawful assets. They are            not connected to any crime at all.                   JUSTICE KAGAN: But, Mr. Srebnick, I mean,         compare two situations.               One is the one that Monsanto talked about        where, yeah, a bank robber goes in and he has a pile of               money now. And Monsanto says, you know, even though he           wants to use that money to pay for an attorney, too bad.                        Now a bank robber goes in, he has a pile of             money, he puts it into a separate bank account, he uses            that bank account to pay his rent, to pay other          expenses, and he uses the money that would have gone for           the rent and other expenses to pay a lawyer.                      Why should the two cases be treated any        differently for Sixth Amendment purposes?                 MR. SREBNICK: Because no amount of       so­called dissipation, as the government would suggest,       Alderson Reporting Company Official negates petitioner's lawful interest in the property she        owns apart from any alleged criminal activity.                   CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, but is ­­       doesn't it make sense the ­­ the sort of substitution          rule? I mean, if you've got $ million in drug            activity ­­ money and you had $ million, and you spent           $ million, you can't say, you know, oh, I spent the            drug money, you can't touch the $ million. It seems to            me that's what the statute is doing when it says          whatever it's a reasonable substitute or assets        substituted for.              MR. SREBNICK: And so, Mr. Chief Justice, of         course, if there is a conviction, if the defendant is           found guilty, after the conviction when punishment is        determined, there may well be the opportunity for the         government to seek punishment that includes the       financial penalties associated with the crime. But        before that time, pretrial, when the defendant is the         exclusive owner of the untainted assets, there is no         principle of law that deprives her of the right.                     JUSTICE KENNEDY: Well, but I ­­ I thought           the Chief Justice's question was slightly different. I         don't know if you were privileged to hear the exciting          argument yesterday on tainted assets.                 (Laughter.) Alderson Reporting Company Official MR. SREBNICK: I was.      JUSTICE KENNEDY: But, you know, there                               are degree ­­ there are degrees of taint. Can you ­­           can you follow ­­ can you follow the assets? So just to             say "tainted" or "untainted," it's a ­­ it's a more            difficult question than that.                MR. SREBNICK: Well, in this case, it's a         simple answer, because here we have a stipulation, Joint          Appendix , that the assets that are the subject of          the dispute here today are assets that are undisputedly         untainted, not traceable to the crime. They include,         for example, family jewelry, not traced to any criminal         activity. They include real estate that was acquired         before the allegations of the conspiracy.                  JUSTICE ALITO: Well, let me go back to         Justice ­­ Justice Kagan's question and ask it in ­­ in           a different way.               So you ­­ we have two brothers and ­­ twin          brothers, and they rob a bank. They get $,. They             split it up, $, each. And on that very same day, it             happens to be their birthday, and their rich uncle comes          and gives each of them $, as a birthday present. So             they go out to party, and one of them ­­ and they both             spend $, partying. One of them spends the money          from the bank robbery. The other one spends the money           Alderson Reporting Company Official that was given to them by their rich uncle. And your            position is that the one who spent the money from the           so­called "tainted assets," the money from the bank        robbery, is entitled to use the remaining $, to hire          an attorney, but the other one is out of luck?                                              MR. SREBNICK: Yes, because the ­­      JUSTICE ALITO: What sense does that make?        MR. SREBNICK: Because the property interest       a defendant has in an inheritance or in a gift, those            property rights are not negated simply because the        defendant has allegedly committed a crime, simply        because there's probable cause.                JUSTICE KENNEDY: So the law ­­ you want         this Court to say spend the bank robbery money first.                      (Laughter.)             JUSTICE KENNEDY: That's ­­ that's your       position?             MR. SREBNICK: Well, the ­­ the government        is concerned about what we would ­­ have described as          the so­called wily criminal. The defendant who spends         the money, the tainted assets, faces perhaps even more         punishment at the end of the day or at the end of the             conviction, either through money laundering charges or       otherwise.             So the Court, keeping in mind that       Alderson Reporting Company Official forfeiture has as its primary component punishment,       there are ways of disincentivizing these kinds of        financial transactions that, Justice Kennedy, you're      referring to. But it doesn't affect the defendant's         property interest in assets that are wholly apart from         any criminal activity.               CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: How do ­­ I ­­ I           don't know how these things actually work. I mean, the            defendant obviously has daily expenses, and ­­ and that         the government's freeze order apparently goes beyond the        money she has. What, does she get an allowance or ­­ or             something?             MR. SREBNICK: As of now she gets nothing,         Mr. Chief Justice.               CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: So ­­ so if her ­­         putting aside lawyers, if her daughter's tuition bill        comes due, she can't pay that?                  MR. SREBNICK: Under the current restraining       order, she can do nothing.                 CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: But she can surely        pay the rent or the mortgage?                  MR. SREBNICK: Under the current restraining       order, she can do nothing. The statute, as it's being           construed by the district court, allows no exception.                    JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: I have the ­­       Alderson Reporting Company Official             JUSTICE KENNEDY: Is it your position the        government could prevent payment for the tuition but not         for the counsel?               MR. SREBNICK: Our position is that there's        a constitutional right under the Sixth Amendment to        retain counsel.              JUSTICE KENNEDY: So the answer is you        can ­­ the government can stop the tuition payment but          not the payment to counsel?                 MR. SREBNICK: I would think so, in those          kinds of instances. There may be other cases, I          concede, if it's life­or­death matters, life­or­death      expenditures, a different defendant might come before        the Court and say there's a strong compelling need for           that money for other reasons. But if it's ordinary,          routine expenses, our claim today doesn't reach that.        Our claim reaches Sixth Amendment issues.                  JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: So you really don't have        a statutory argument. You're making a Sixth Amendment          argument because if it were a statutory argument, it          would be you can ­­ you can restrain ­­ you can't           restrain untainted assets.               MR. SREBNICK: Justice Sotomayor, the      statute, U.S.C. , which is different than the         drug forfeiture statute, U.S.C. , it's at the         Alderson Reporting Company Official blue brief at page ­­                  JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: I guess I'm ­­ I         understand what you're going to say because I read your           brief.                         MR. SREBNICK: Okay.    JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: But the logic of your        argument would suggest that you can't freeze untainted        assets for anything, because you're saying the       government has no property right to it. It's untainted.          It's your money; it's not their money until they secure          a judgment. And so the logic of your position would be,            I think, they can't restrain untainted assets, period,        constitutionally or statutorily.               in our ­­              MR. SREBNICK: Well, we do not go that far          JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: I know you don't because         it's very nice that you limit it. But once we announce            a rule, we have to carry it to its logical conclusion.           And if the rule is it's untainted assets and it belongs           to me, how do we then limit it?                    MR. SREBNICK: Well, I suppose that if         there's no Sixth Amendment right at stake, if there's no          constitutional right to use the asset today, I don't          know of any prohibition, provided that there's due        process, that would prevent the Court from restraining        Alderson Reporting Company Official assets proposed to be used for other purposes.                    JUSTICE GINSBURG: But you said that this ­­        this is her property. If it's tainted, you say she           doesn't own it, it's not her money. But if it's           untainted, it is her money. So I think          Justice Sotomayor has asked a fair question.                     Isn't the logic of your position that the       untainted assets can be used without restraint for        whatever she wants to use it for?                   MR. SREBNICK: Justice Ginsburg, from a       constitutional perspective, I don't think that that's        necessarily correct because the courts can give       injunctive power to restrain assets, even assets       currently belonging to the defendant. Our objection is         when such an injunction interferes with the       constitutionally protected right to retain counsel of       choice.             And so while the statute could      constitutionally allow, provided that there is adequate       hearings, et cetera, the restraint of even a defendant's          owned assets, lawfully owned assets, that principle       can't extend to assets ­­ the subset of assets she needs           to use counsel of choice.                 JUSTICE SCALIA: What if ­­ what if the         woman is a devout Muslim and she ­­ she makes a ­­ an               Alderson Reporting Company Official annual trip to Mecca every year? Wouldn't she have a           constitutional right to use the money for that?                    MR. SREBNICK: So certainly she would have a         constitutional right. And whether she could then obtain         the assets free from the injunction immediately would        raise a separate First Amendment question.                   The Sixth Amendment, because the deprivation      will be permanent, meaning, we need those assets now         before the trial, and the immediacy of the need for          those assets ­­              JUSTICE SCALIA: Well, she has an immediate        need to go to Mecca. I mean, if she doesn't get it now,               she's not going to be able to fulfill what she regards           as a religious obligation. I don't know how you can             limit your ­­ your principle to the Sixth Amendment.                     MR. SREBNICK: The Sixth Amendment is       important in the context of the adversarial proceeding        that will determine the ultimate ownership of those        assets at the end of the day. And so unlike the First             Amendment, unlike any other amendment, the Sixth       Amendment is a guarantee that the defendant will be          represented at the proceeding where that property and        her liberty are at stake. And with regard to the           travels to Mecca, those travels, while significant under        the First Amendment, don't bear on the ultimate outcome         Alderson Reporting Company Official of the criminal case.                 And so because the need for assets that we        are requesting limited to that amount needed to retain         counsel of choice, limited to the amount needed to mount          a legal defense to the very charge that threatens her          property rights and her liberty upon conviction, there        needs to be an accommodation so that she can use enough           assets, controlled by the Court, of course ­­                   JUSTICE KAGAN: Mr. Srebnick, this goes       back, I think, to the Chief Justice's first question.          It seems that the distinction that you're making is one          that the Court explicitly rejected in Monsanto. In         other words, the Court said the Sixth Amendment here is          the exact same thing as the First Amendment. It even           used that example that Justice Scalia gave, or that         general example.              And ­­ and so it goes back to the         Chief Justice's question in ­­ in the sense of there's a           very powerful intuition behind your argument, but it's a         powerful intuition that was explicitly rejected by us.        And ­­ and this case doesn't seem to present any          different circumstances than that one.                 MR. SREBNICK: Justice Kagan, I ­­ I think           the circumstances are quite different because of the        tainted property that was at issue in Monsanto.        Alderson Reporting Company Official             First, we know it was drug money in        Monsanto. It had been established by clear and         convincing evidence. In our case, it's totally        untainted assets.              Second, the Court recognized that a      defendant doesn't have a lawful property interest in         drug money. No different than a bank robber does not            have a lawful interest in the bank loot.                     JUSTICE KENNEDY: Yeah, but your ­­ your        earlier argument was you have a constitutional right to          establish that it isn't drug money. That was your whole           answer to Justice Scalia.                MR. SREBNICK: In this case there's no        dispute that the money is untainted. And I'm not ­­                      JUSTICE KENNEDY: I'm talking about the rule        that you're proposing.               MR. SREBNICK: The rule I proposed,        consistent with the Court's observation in Kaley, there        are two elements to establish forfeitability; one, that        there's a crime committed, and second, traceability from         the majority opinion in Kaley.                 Here we have undisputedly untainted assets,      not traceable to a crime. In Monsanto, the assets were            drug money. And a defendant doesn't have the right to            use drug money to represent ­­ to be represented by the           Alderson Reporting Company Official counsel of his choice.                CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: I guess you're ­­ I          think this may be Justice Sotomayor's point.                   Your argument, you're distinguishing tainted     and untainted assets, and I understand that. I just            don't understand that if you can freeze the assets         despite the Sixth Amendment when they're tainted, I        don't understand why it's not the same rule when they're          untainted.             You may have ­­ may have statutory       arguments, you ­­ but if you have arguments, it has          nothing to do with the constitutional right to counsel.                     MR. SREBNICK: Mr. Chief Justice, I think it          has everything to do with the Sixth Amendment because,         at its inception, the Sixth Amendment only encompassed        the right to spend one ­­ one's own money to be           represented by counsel. There was no right to the          appointment of counsel.               So taking away the defendant's lawfully held       assets, whether it be their pension funds, whether it be          an inheritance, whether it be their lawfully earned        labors, to take that away at the inception of this          nation would have meant the defendant would have been         left with no counsel at all since the notion of an           appointed lawyer is really a notion of more recent          Alderson Reporting Company Official vintage, in the th century.                 So indeed, to take away the property rights,        pretrial, of a defendant, at the time when he or she is             under indictment, needs those assets to retain counsel,        any private counsel ­­ so we're not talking in this case           about a particular ­­                JUSTICE SCALIA: Well, what if ­­ what if         the prosecution brings a case for crime X and wins that             case, and it imposes a fine that takes away all of the             defendant's assets, and then the prosecution brings       another case for crime Y, would you be arguing that the           fine had to make an exception for the defense of          crime Y?                                      MR. SREBNICK: No, Justice Scalia.      JUSTICE SCALIA: What's the difference?      MR. SREBNICK: There's a judgment. Upon         judgment, a defendant can lose his right to property          upon execution of that judgment. So the government         could execute on that criminal judgment and take as much          of the defendant's assets needed to satisfy the fine.                     Our objection is to the government doing it        before conviction, before there's been any judgment.       Locking down somebody's assets at the very moment when         he or she needs those assets to exercise the right to           counsel. As it was envisioned ­­      Alderson Reporting Company Official             JUSTICE SCALIA: The Sixth Amendment only ­­       only protects your money up until the point where         there's a judgment?                            MR. SREBNICK: Yes.    JUSTICE KENNEDY: But in ­­ in this case,         there was a finding of probable cause.                                MR. SREBNICK: Yes.    JUSTICE KENNEDY: So you want us to make a          distinction between probable cause and a judgment?                    MR. SREBNICK: Yes. Every case, every        indictment brings with it a finding of probable cause.          It's ­­ the two rights have to coexist. The right to be             represented by counsel of choice under the Sixth        Amendment has to coexist with the indictment, because        under Patterson v. Illinois, the right under the Sixth         Amendment is triggered by the indictment. It's        triggered by the finding of probable cause.                   To then say that probable cause destroys the        right to the Sixth Amendment is to then say that they           don't coexist. But, of course, they do, because the          Sixth Amendment was established in , and it's part         of our fabric.               JUSTICE KAGAN: I might just be repeating         myself, but ­­ but I thought that, again, that          distinction was the one specifically rejected in       Alderson Reporting Company Official Monsanto. I mean, Monsanto could have said Caplin &           Drysdale is different because it's postconviction. But        Monsanto refused to say that. Monsanto said the same          rule that applies postconviction ought to apply upon a         finding of probable cause.                MR. SREBNICK: Yes, Justice Kagan, but       probable cause to believe the assets are tainted.        Probable cause to believe that the drug money is not the           defendant's to spend. Not probable ­­ there's no         probable cause here as to these assets that Ms. Luis          proposes to use to retain counsel of choice.                    JUSTICE ALITO: The problem with this       argument is that as a matter of economics and ­­ and            common sense, money is fungible. To say if the ­­ if            the so­called tainted money has been spent, and what's         left is the untainted money, it doesn't make a         difference which ­­ you know, which pot has been spent          and which pot hasn't been spent.                  MR. SREBNICK: Respectfully, Justice Alito,      it makes a major difference. Our property laws, while           money in some instances is fungible when they're        commingled, if there is segregated property, when       creditors try to levy against property that's not part         of a secured interest, the law treats it very          differently. Alderson Reporting Company Official             JUSTICE ALITO: Well, yes, but then       there's ­­ that's all sorts of complicated rules in         those areas.                  I mean, let's ­­ suppose you have ­­    and none of that necessarily applies here. Suppose you          have the situation where what's at stake is money that's          going to be used for restitution, all right? So at the            beginning of the case, the question is whether the         defendant can spend that money to hire the attorney of          the defendant's choice, which is certainly a very         powerful interest, or whether that money, at the end of          the case if there is a conviction, is going to go to the              victims.             So how do you ­­ how do you try to          accommodate those two interests?                MR. SREBNICK: Well, to provide a       restitution exception would just swallow the entire       Sixth Amendment out of the Constitution for the        following reason. In most cases, a victim has sustained           an injury. It might be property damage. It might be            personal injury. And if, for example, to use a          hypothetical, if someone were to steal the Mona Lisa, or          allegedly steal the Mona Lisa but the Mona Lisa isn't          found, there's no principle this Court has ever ­­                    JUSTICE ALITO: So your answer is that the         Alderson Reporting Company Official defendant's right to hire counsel of choice takes        precedence over the rights of the victims, and you would          say that no matter how strong the proof is?                                 MR. SREBNICK: Yes.    JUSTICE ALITO: Until there's ­­ until there        is a verdict?                MR. SREBNICK: As long as the assets that         the defendant proposes to use are her lawful assets,         untainted, not connected to the crime, not traceable to         any criminal activity, yes, because ­­                 JUSTICE SCALIA: That seems to me not a         very ­­ I don't know ­­ not a very persuasive line.             You're relying on property law. What you're saying is          the government can take away all your money if it's          tainted, if there is probable cause to believe that it's          tainted, right? It can take away all of your money if            there is a judgment. But it can't take away all of your              money if there's simply probable cause to believe that         you're going to owe this money.                  MR. SREBNICK: Right.                JUSTICE SCALIA: Your crime. That seems to         me a very ­­ I don't know, not ­­ not ­­ an evanescent               line. I ­­ I don't know why the Sixth Amendment case              is ­­ the property case is ­­ is stronger in one           situation than the other, but I'm not sure that the          Alderson Reporting Company Official Sixth Amendment case is any stronger.                  MR. SREBNICK: What ­­ what the statute is         purporting to do is give the government a prejudgment          attachment on the defendant's assets based on a        projected judgment.              JUSTICE SCALIA: That's right. It's       property law.                          MR. SREBNICK: And the Sixth Amendment ­­       JUSTICE SCALIA: You're complaining about      property law, not the Sixth Amendment.                  MR. SREBNICK: Well, I'm complaining that       the Sixth Amendment, because at its root contemplated        the use of property to retain counsel, the two in some           degree are interrelated, of course, because without       money years ago or so, you couldn't hire a lawyer,            and none would be appointed for you.                   So while the Court has accommodated the       indigent by providing them with appointed counsel, that        is not a license for the government to render people who            are not indigent, indigent. It's not a license to           impoverish them by virtue of the accusation alone. That          would simply write out the Sixth Amendment from the         Constitution.             In every single case where there is a victim          who claims injury, every single one, the government has         Alderson Reporting Company Official by definition probable cause because the indictment is        based on probable cause. And it's not subject to          challenge under the Kaley opinion. And so if we are           going to say that merely being accused in this country          because a grand jury has found probable cause is now           sufficient to lock down all of your assets, assets you          have owned for decades, perhaps, because at some future         time maybe a jury will convict and maybe a judge will             enter a judgment, and then maybe the court will then           have to enforce that judgment, really is to write out          the Sixth Amendment.               And there are ways ­­ if the point of a          criminal case is to inflict punishment on a defendant,          there are ways other than financial means to do so. Of            course, incarceration is the number one form of        punishment.             And while the needs of the victims are        certainly important, what we're asking here is to        accommodate both. We're not asking that all the funds          be released, only so much as are necessary so that the           accused can be represented by private counsel.                   JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: I know this is not part          of the question asked, but I know that it ­­ it's            suggested in the fringes of the briefs. How does the           district court ensure that she doesn't use every penny         Alderson Reporting Company Official for defense costs when the district court thinks that         that's not reasonable, for example?                 MR. SREBNICK: I don't think there's an         issue, particularly in this case with that issue,        because the court which now has control over the assets          would manage the disbursement of funds for counsel, and         the bar rules would apply. Just as with a CJA­appointed            lawyer, Criminal Justice Act appointed lawyer, goes to        the court, and says, here are my hours. Here's what I            need for investigation. Here's what I need for support           services for discovery. That would be managed by the          district courts.              CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: But you're not ­­       you're not looking for CJA rates, are you?                                MR. SREBNICK: No, we're not, Justice.       CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: I didn't think so.                     (Laughter.)             MR. SREBNICK: And ­­ and so given the         ability of our district courts to manage those issues,         the only standard we would ask for, that they be          reasonable and bona fide, and the bar rules govern that.                        I should add that while we are having a ­­         an academic discussion here, it didn't seem to be such a           controversial proposition to the government when in       Caplin & Drysdale in their brief, they wrote the          Alderson Reporting Company Official following: "The Constitution requires that a court         afford a defendant a fair opportunity to secure counsel           of choice using whatever assets he has at his lawful          disposal."             That's the brief of Caplin & Drysdale by the          Solicitor General at page .                 And so when the Solicitor General's office       argued this case in Caplin & Drysdale years ago, they            came to the Court and said there was a difference           between tainted and untainted assets. And some years          later, those are being conflated as if there is no          difference between the two.                JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Well, we have a new         statute. made a difference between ­­ and still           does ­­ between tainted and untainted.                  MR. SREBNICK: That is very true,       Justice Sotomayor. And to the ­­                  JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: This section came later,       and it says substitute property.                 MR. SREBNICK: That is true. So there is          a ­­ a statute, the statute that's at issue in this            case, different from . in most circuits does not           authorize the pretrial restraint of untainted assets.       So all the concerns about victims, all the concerns that          emanate from the questions that have been asked today,         Alderson Reporting Company Official Congress struck that balance and did not allow for the          restraint of substitute assets, at least in most        circuits as it has been interpreted. The Solicitor         General has a different view of the statute as it           expressed in the Fourth Circuit.                    But in all events, though the victims are     certainly to be accommodated, so, too, the rights of the          criminal defendant who needs to be represented by the         counsel of choice.               JUSTICE GINSBURG: But Congress seemed to       have singled out these banking frauds and healthcare        frauds for special treatment, so they're not governed by         the general forfeiture statute, which makes the       distinction between tainted and untainted. They seem to         want to come down very hard on these two crimes. So why             would we interpret ­­ was it ? ­­ as doing nothing,           as being controlled essentially by ?                  MR. SREBNICK: So , although it doesn't        use the word "forfeiture," it doesn't say what happens         to these assets. It simply locks them down, so to           speak, until something happens. It doesn't even talk         about a criminal case, but it is in the context of            Title . And the one court ­­ court ­­ Fang case talks             about, there needs to be some sort of criminal procedure          that follows the lockdown.    Alderson Reporting Company Official             And Justice Ginsburg, while Congress may      have given in this instance the ability of the         government to restrain assets of equivalent value,       notwithstanding our statutory interpretation argument,     it still needs to accommodate the rights of the criminal          accused.             If I may reserve the balance of my time for           rebuttal.             CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, counsel.                   Mr. Dreeben.             ORAL ARGUMENT OF MICHAEL R. DREEBEN                     ON BEHALF OF THE RESPONDENT                 MR. DREEBEN: Thank you, Mr. Chief Justice,        and may it please the Court:                    I think that the appropriate starting point      for this case is the last sentence of Monsanto, not          because Monsanto specifically addressed substitute     property, but because it adopted a principle that I          believe resolves this case. And the last sentence of          Monsanto says, "If the government may, posttrial, forbid        the use of forfeited assets to pay an attorney, then          surely no constitutional violation occurs when after       probable cause is adequately established, the government       obtains an order barring a defendant from frustrating         that end by dissipating his assets prior to trial."         Alderson Reporting Company Official             CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, that was said        in the context of the government's submission that        there's a difference between tainted and untainted,        right? Your ­­ your argument in Monsanto focused on the           tainted aspects of the proceeds.                 MR. DREEBEN: Yes, it did. And that's why I           say that the principle that the court articulated in         that sentence is what decides this case.                   JUSTICE BREYER: Why is that the principle?        The principle ­­ they're talking about money that        doesn't belong to the defendant.                 MR. DREEBEN: Well ­­                JUSTICE BREYER: It belongs to Smith or        Jones of the bank. Now, let's try that principle in a            case where it's the defendant's money. The principle is          that the government, without proving that he's guilty of         any crime beyond a reasonable doubt, can take all his           money. Oh, because he might be fined.                    I've never heard of such a principle,        frankly. I've just never heard of it. Now, if there is             some case that says ­­                JUSTICE SCALIA: Sixth Amendment or not.                   JUSTICE BREYER: So ­­ now I can imagine ­­                      MR. DREEBEN: Justice Breyer, let me try to         explain ­­ Alderson Reporting Company Official             JUSTICE BREYER: I can go from there and          find interests on both sides, da, da, da.                    MR. DREEBEN: Justice Breyer, I think that         it's important to start with, actually, the principle        that Monsanto adopted, not because it resolved the        factual circumstances here, but because it's talking       about the point in time after the government wins a          judgment. And the principle is that if the government          will have a right to forfeit that property at the end ­­                                    cause ­­             JUSTICE BREYER: Yes.    MR. DREEBEN: ­­ if it can show probable         JUSTICE BREYER: I ­­ I understood that. I            just wanted to try it with the facts here.                       I mean, the first principle is if, in fact,        the defendant has somebody else's money that he's taken         unlawfully, and he has to give it up at the end of the             trial, we can make him give it up at the beginning to            make sure it's there.                Now let's try it with the facts here. If a           defendant has some money, which maybe he will have to          pay in a fine, what we'll do is we'll take all his money              away before he's been convicted beyond a reasonable         doubt. Okay. That's the difference in the         propositions. Alderson Reporting Company Official             And I'm saying it's pretty hard for me to         think in a country which says that before he's          convicted, you have to release him on bail except in          unusual circumstances, that nonetheless, you can take       all his money away so he can't hire a lawyer.                         I know that's a little simpleminded, but       nonetheless, that seems fairly basic. I don't know          where it comes from.                MR. DREEBEN: So Justice Breyer, I think         that the ­­ the embedded premise there is that people          will not suffer restraints on their liberty or property         before they have been convicted beyond a reasonable         doubt.             JUSTICE BREYER: That's correct. That is        the principle, and now we make a number of exceptions.           And one exception is if you think he's going to ­­ I            mean, I can think of exceptions where we do keep people            in jail. That is, of course, right. And ­­ and here,             what they're saying, I think, in essence is, let's try           and think of an exception for this one. Pretty hard.           And anyway, if there is one, what he wants to use the            money for is to make sure he has a lawyer. It's called              the Sixth Amendment.               All right. Now, there we are. That's where          I ­­ at this moment in my mind, that's where the case            Alderson Reporting Company Official is.             MR. DREEBEN: All right. So can I try to            break that down a little bit? Because I do think that              the principle in Monsanto is critical. The principle in          Monsanto is that if the government will be able to          forfeit the property at the end of the day, it has an            interest in ensuring that it is available and not         dissipated. It's the monetary equivalent of flight.        It's asset flight.               And this statute, Section , was      specifically designed, as Justice Ginsburg observed, for       crimes in the banking and in the healthcare context in          which money flows into accounts, money is fungible, very         difficult to ­­              JUSTICE BREYER: I think ­­ I think that's           a ­­ what you say is, look, this is equivalent to the            case where we keep the guy in jail because he might run            away. That's your point. That's not a bad point. So I               have on that on one side, and I have on the other side              that he'd like to have a lawyer which is a Sixth             Amendment right.              So I have a suggestion that I want you to             focus on. The suggestion is ­­ let's read this statute           in light of what you've said, that there is an interest           on your side and there is a constitutional amendment on           Alderson Reporting Company Official the other side. Why can't we read this statute to say            they accommodate those interests in this way?                   If they're going to run away from ­­ with         the property, then the court has the authority to enjoin          the alienation or disposition of property, say tainted,        then you can ask for a restraining order to prohibit the            prohibition, not just of the tainted property but also         of property of equivalent value.                 If I read that without knowing the        background, I would say a lot of cases come up where you              get TROs, where they're not precise because you don't         know exactly what property you're talking about. So         what do you think about reading this statute to avoid          the constitutional question to say the TRO means TRO?                     And a TRO means where there's some property         out there and it may be tainted, mixed up with the           untainted, you can get a TRO on the whole thing. You             have to have a speedy hearing. He has to be            represented. And your purpose of that is to separate          the two kinds of assets. That seems to me to work for             the purpose, and it also avoids the constitutional        question.             MR. DREEBEN: So two things on that. I hope            I get a chance to say both of them.                      First, I don't think that it is a serious           Alderson Reporting Company Official constitutional question in light of Monsanto, so I don't          really think that there's a serious avoidance concern         here. Monsanto basically said that if the government         has shown adequately that it will be able to forfeit the           money at the conclusion of the case, the Sixth Amendment          doesn't override the government's interests.                 After all, Justice Breyer, this is basically       a zero­sum game. Either there will be money available          at the end of the case for the victims or the money will             have been spent on lawyers. And Congress made a          judgment that the government can't come in in every case          and simply restrain assets upon a showing of nothing.          But it does have a statute in a very specific area that              allows it to ­­                           JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Do you really ­­      JUSTICE KENNEDY: But what is it that        confines your ­­ your rationale to a specific area? It            seems to me that if the government prevails in this          case, every State in the union, every locality could say          that in the event of assault and battery, malicious ­­         malicious mischief, drunk ­­ an accident caused by drunk         driving, any crime involving a bodily injury, that the          government is entitled to restrain disposition of assets        that might be used for medical care, for pain and          suffering. And this would, in effect, prevent the         Alderson Reporting Company Official private bar from ­­ from practicing law unless it did so           on a contingent basis.                 MR. DREEBEN: Justice Kennedy, it's correct       that our principle is not limited to the types of crimes           that are in this case. It is limited to the government            making an adequate showing that at the conclusion of the          case, it will have the right to the money.                     JUSTICE KENNEDY: Well, but you're talking       about probable cause. But ­­ but there's ­­                                MR. DREEBEN: Understood.    JUSTICE KENNEDY: The government can often       show probable cause, and that's usually the basis for         the indictment.              MR. DREEBEN: That's correct. And, I ­­         again, I think that Monsanto resolved this question by          saying that if the government can take title to the          property at the conclusion of the case, it has an          interest in ensuring that it is available, and the Sixth          Amendment doesn't override it.                            JUSTICE KAGAN: Mr. Dreeben ­­     CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: It takes the ­­ it ­         it establishes that right in the same way as the issue           here, without counsel on the part of the defendant,         because you ­­ I assume Kaley applies to untainted          assets as well as untainted.     Alderson Reporting Company Official MR. DREEBEN: That's correct.     CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: So add to the                                context of what Justice Breyer was concerned about. You          not only can do that, you can do that without giving the            defendant any type of hearing, right?                  MR. DREEBEN: No, I think the defendant is          often entitled to a hearing. The question is what           issues the defendant may raise at the hearing. Here,          for example, there was clearly an issue of whether the          defendant was, in fact, dissipating assets. And that         would have been something that the defendant ­­                   CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: I thought ­­ I         thought under Kaley, the defendant didn't have to be         provided a ­­ a hearing with respect to the pretrial ­­                                    assets.             MR. DREEBEN: With ­­    CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: ­­ seizure of       MR. DREEBEN: With respect to whether       there's probable cause to believe that the defendant        committed an offense. That's what Kaley said is         controlled.             JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Kaley was a question of         tracing, because it was ­­                MR. DREEBEN: It ­­ it was,       Justice Sotomayor. And that ­­     Alderson Reporting Company Official             JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: But you don't have any        tracing problem here. As soon as he commits a crime            that you say was worth $ million, you can freeze          $ million worth of assets, correct?                  MR. DREEBEN: Although there were far fewer        here because most of them had been dissipated. And I           think that the reason why ­­                 JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: I respect that, and ­­        but ­­ but you agreed that these particular funds were          untainted. I'm told by your adversary ­­                   MR. DREEBEN: We ­­ we stipulated ­­ it's         technical, but we ­­ we stipulated that there may be          some unquantified amount of untainted assets in the        assets being restrained. We did not know, and did not           attempt to figure out, and that would be an issue for a            later day if the Court said that that mattered.                     JUSTICE KAGAN: Mr. Dreeben, I think, you         know, in essence your argument goes like this: You have           Monsanto, you combine Monsanto with a ­­ a simple           factual acknowledgment that money is fungible, and it        gets you to a judgment in this case. You win, the             petitioner loses. And ­­ and, you know, that's a fair,            strong argument, if ­­ if one is comfortable with         Monsanto.               I mean, there is ­­ so I think I would just            Alderson Reporting Company Official ask you, I mean, suppose the Court is just uncomfortable           with the path we started down the road on in Monsanto?           And you might be right that it just doesn't make sense           to draw a line here, but it leaves you with a situation              in which more and more and more we're depriving people          of the ability to hire counsel of choice in complicated          cases. And so what should we do with that intuition           that Monsanto sent us down the wrong path?                    MR. DREEBEN: Well, I ­­ I would hope that            the Court sees that even if there are some uncomfortable          aspects of Monsanto, it actually rests on a sound legal           judgment. And I ­­ I realize I have said this, but I                will keep coming back to this because I think it is the             touchstone for Monsanto.               Caplin & Drysdale was a postjudgment case.         And it said once these funds are forfeitable, the         defendant, if he pays his lawyer with them, is paying          the lawyer with somebody else's money, namely, the        government.             Then the question is, can the government do        anything to prevent dissipation of the assets before it         obtains the judgment? And the Court said not         automatically, not as a general rule it can always come           in and say this is what we want, this is what we get.             But with an appropriate hearing, the balance of interest         Alderson Reporting Company Official does permit the government to preserve the equities.                    Now, this has an effect on counsel of        choice. It has no effect on the ability of the           defendant to be represented by counsel.                  CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Counsel, how ­­ I        don't know how these things work. Let's say you get an            order freezing the assets, and it's $ million, and ­­         and the defendant comes into the court, whatever, and         says, look, my lawyer is going to cost $,, one          percent of the assets that are at issue here. Then you            would argue, no, even though it's only a tiny fraction           of what we're seizing, the Sixth Amendment doesn't even         entitle him to one percent of the assets that might ­­          might end up being forfeitable?                 MR. DREEBEN: Yes. I don't think there's an           exception in the Sixth Amendment.                 Now, this is a statute in which the         government proceeded through seeking a civil injunction        and restraining order, and the district court does have         discretion. It's not a flat rule that forbids the           district court from releasing funds for counsel.                   CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: How does it work?        Like the ­­ you know, the daughter's tuition bill comes          due, you know, and it's whoever ­­ you know, who knows           how much these days, $,. And the defendant cannot          Alderson Reporting Company Official pay that?              MR. DREEBEN: Not as a matter of right. But            this is a civil statute in which the judge can exercise            equitable discretion. And if the defendant comes in and          says ­­             CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, why was it ­­        why would it be ­­ if he can exercise equitable          discretion for the daughter's tuition, why ­­ why not         when the Sixth Amendment is at stake? And, you know,           counsel of choice, it turns on that, it would seem to me            that if there's going to be a case in which equitable            discretion will be exercised, it ought to be in that          situation.             MR. DREEBEN: Well, I don't think        automatically so. Here the judge said one consideration         is, will the defendant have representation in the         proceeding itself? The defendant did. Mr. Srebnick         represented the defendant in that proceeding. So the         court said, I don't need to worry about that.                      Then the court turned to the question of        whether the defendant needed counsel in the criminal        case and said, the defendant will be afforded counsel in          the criminal case, by appointment if necessary.                   JUSTICE BREYER: Can you get back ­­ you had          two responses to my reading of the statute. I heard the             Alderson Reporting Company Official first, and I didn't hear the second.                                MR. DREEBEN: So this ­­     JUSTICE BREYER: By the way, let me ­­ let          me remind you ­­                           MR. DREEBEN: I remember exactly what ­­        JUSTICE BREYER: But I want to say it,          because maybe you can focus on this. We're in before           the judge on a TRO. Our object of the TRO is to              separate the assets that are not this man's from the          assets that are this man's. So we do that separation.                       Now we say $, is not his, it's the         bank's. $, or $, over here is totally his;          he's never been convicted of the crime.                   What's the government's interest? And why       can't he take this other, once we've had the TRO ­­                                              MR. DREEBEN: So Justice Breyer ­­      JUSTICE BREYER: ­­ to separate it?       MR. DREEBEN: ­­ I think I need to stop you             here because it's not a TRO. The statute does not ­­                        JUSTICE BREYER: I know. It says         restraining order ­­                          MR. DREEBEN: That's correct.     JUSTICE BREYER: ­­ and my suggestion is we         read those words "restraining order" as "temporary       restraining order," which ()(b), it seems to me,        Alderson Reporting Company Official clearly permits, but we can get into that argument.         I'll worry about that later.                             MR. DREEBEN: Well, I think that the ­­         JUSTICE BREYER: I want to know what your          second response was to that.                 MR. DREEBEN: My second response is that        this a statute that contains two basic provisions. I           think petitioner describes it accurately.                 Section (a) describes the things the      government can seek under the statute; Subsection (B)        describes the procedure that's used.                 Subsection (A) first allows the government      to get an injunction against fraud in (A)(). In (A)()           it allows it to restrain assets as the ultimate object          of the suit, not as a temporary interim measure.                      Temporary interim measures are described in      Subsection (B) where it specifically allows the Court to         impose various restraints until the Court has concluded        the proceeding. So it addresses temporary relief in         (B).             Subsection (A)() describes the things that      the government can seek as the ultimate object of the          case. Injunction against the person who has the funds,          or a restraining order against any person to restrain          the funds that are derived from illegal activity, or         Alderson Reporting Company Official funds of equivalent value.                 And just to make one final point on that,        the reason that makes sense in a banking context and in            a healthcare context is dollars are fungible, as        Justice Alito said earlier. They will flow into an          account; they will flow out into other accounts. It's          difficult to trace them.                So Congress obviated the need to do that by         saying you can restrain the defendant, but we're not         going to rely only on restraining the defendant. You          can also restrain the banks where the funds are. And           you can restrain them not only in the amounts that          represent the tainted funds, but represent the monetary        equivalent of them.                           finish.             So in a sense ­­     JUSTICE ALITO: I don't ­­ go ahead and          MR. DREEBEN: Well, I think, in a sense,           this statute negates the premise that there is a clean           line between tainted funds and untainted funds. The         money is fungible once it's received by the defendant.                     There is Medicare fraud if the government       establishes probable cause, and its financial interest       is ensuring that it can have a judgment to make whole            the Medicare trust fund or other victims at the         Alderson Reporting Company Official conclusion of the case.                JUSTICE ALITO: I'm ­­ I'm troubled by this         statute. I ­­ I can't understand the difference between            (a) and (B). I don't think ­­ the issue was not raised              in the cert petition, and I don't know whether it can be             brought in with the Doctrine of Constitutional       Avoidance, because it really has nothing to do with the          Sixth Amendment. This would apply regardless of whether         there's any Sixth Amendment issue in the case.                    But, having said that ­­ Mr. Srebnick can        address those in rebuttal if he wishes to, but having          said that, if (B) does not refer to a temporary form of             relief, then ­­ which I understand to be your          argument ­­ then I don't understand what (a)         contributes.             MR. DREEBEN: So (a)() has two different        sections, and it describes what the government can seek         as the ultimate relief in the case.                   This started out as an antifraud injunction       statute. Somebody is going around with the boiler room          operation or a Ponzi scheme; it takes a while to get the              evidence to indict. The government can come in and seek           an injunction to prevent further fraud.                  Then Congress added (a)() on the theory       that there's something else the government needs to do,         Alderson Reporting Company Official ensure that money is available at the conclusion of         whatever parallel criminal case or civil fraud case the         government brings.              JUSTICE BREYER: So what they can do is         this? If we read this literally under (B), that          Mr. Smith is indicted for a banking law violation, he           has $, of other people's money. The government         can say that the order ­­ the restraining order of the           Court prohibits his wife, any other client, the milk         man, anyone in the world, from taking, not the $,          that belongs to the bank, but any other $, that he           got for any other purpose, I guess including his          retirement fund, including no matter what.                    I mean, that is ­­ goes ­­ it seems to me          that's what it says ­­ any other person from taking          property of equivalent value, and he hasn't been        convicted of anything.               MR. DREEBEN: Yes, but it's ­­ it's        referring, again, to a person who has ­­ there is           probable cause to believe has obtained money as a result           of a criminal violation, and then it provides a          mechanism for restraining it. It's not aimed at         restraining people who have nothing to do with the case,          unless they're holding the defendant's money.                  JUSTICE BREYER: Well, this is ­­ this is         Alderson Reporting Company Official innocent money, the defendant's, not the money he        obtained as a result of the violation. The money he            didn't obtain, that's what this case is about.                    MR. DREEBEN: The innocent money versus       tainted money all depends on a theory that they are           economically pure. Now, the ­­ the only argument that          Mr. Srebnick made to distinguish them, and I realize          there may be members of the Court who think this is not            a very good argument, and maybe the question is whether          Monsanto is at root problematic, but at least insofar as          that argument goes, it's based on a reading of the           relation­backed doctrine that's contrary to this Court's       cases.             Monsanto itself made this very clear. It        said that the government can restrain money that will         become the government's property at the conclusion of        the case.              JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Mr. Dreeben, you're      taking Monsanto out of context, because , by its         nature, was limited to tainted funds. This is the first           statute if ­­ that I know of that permits the government            to come in and take untainted funds. The incidence of           the tainted funds concept was, you can't spend another         person's money. You stole this money somehow, and you          can't spend that money because it belongs to someone         Alderson Reporting Company Official else. It really doesn't belong to you. But it's not            until a judgment ­­ and this is what your adversary is            trying to say ­­ that the money that's untainted, the          money that ­­ or the property that he bought before this           crime, this untainted property becomes yours. It's not         until that moment, the judgment, that the property is         forfeitable.                         MR. DREEBEN: That's true.     JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: You can't forfeit it       beforehand. So now the issue is ­­                   MR. DREEBEN: That's true for all ­­ that's         true or all money, tainted and untainted.                   JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Well, but ­­ but still        the question becomes, is there a substantive difference,         and I think Justice Breyer is expressing ­­ the problem           with this, as Justice Kagan said, this intuitive sense,         which is where do we draw this line?                                MR. DREEBEN: So ­­    JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Does the right to       counsel have any meaning anymore?                             MR. DREEBEN: I think it does.        JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Frankly, I expect within        three to five years, if we rule in your favor, will            be changed to have this same language.                   MR. DREEBEN: So , Justice Sotomayor,       Alderson Reporting Company Official does permit forfeiture of substitute property.                              JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Yes, but not pretrial.       MR. DREEBEN: Not ­­ not pretrial. This         statute is different because it has a different function          and a different purpose. But the basic concept of           forfeiture is punishing the defendant by taking money        through forfeiture that's equivalent to the tainted       property if the tainted property is gone. That's the          policy behind it. Now ­­                 JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: But that's true of every        judgment.             MR. DREEBEN: It is true ­­                  JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Every judgment gives you       a right to substitute property of some sort.                    MR. DREEBEN: Yes, but ­­ but the point is          that the tainted property and the substitute property        are similarly situated at the end of the forfeiture         case. The government has a property right in each of            them, but the ­­ I don't think the property right is            really the essence of what's going on here.                    The fact that Section permits pretrial       restraint of tainted property, but it doesn't reference        the subsection that deals with substitute property, is a         feature of that statute, but I think that has nothing to            do with the underlying point, which is that if the          Alderson Reporting Company Official government is going to be able to collect on its          forfeiture judgment, sometimes it will need to restrain        property. Monsanto recognizes that, and I don't think          that saying that the defendant has a interest in paying           for counsel trumps the government's interest in being        made whole at the conclusion of the case.                                JUSTICE KAGAN: Mr. Dreeben ­­     JUSTICE SCALIA: When did the ­­ when did         the ­­ when was the first statute that allowed the          government to restrain the expenditure of tainted funds?        Does that go back a long time or ­­                     MR. DREEBEN: Well, the ­­ the whole history         of in personam forfeiture was dormant until , and         then Congress passed a statute that permitted this kind          of activity. It improved the statute in to remedy           defects in the pretrial restraint of assets.                   So it was relatively recently developed,      targeting basically drug conspiracies and organized      criminal activity.              JUSTICE SCALIA: And ­­ and the first time         that Congress ever applied it to non­tainted property        was what year?               MR. DREEBEN: Well, the substitute assets       provision was added to the ­­ the basic forfeiture         statute, and it was there at least by . I think             Alderson Reporting Company Official that it may have been earlier as well.                    This provision is different, as Justice      Sotomayor pointed out, from the basic forfeiture statute        in permitting pretrial restraint of any assets, but I         think that it reflects the same basic underlying idea.                                 JUSTICE GINSBURG: And that ­­     JUSTICE KENNEDY: And ­­ but just ­­ just to          be clear, so that I understood your earlier answer, the           consequence, the necessary consequence of your position       is that any State in the union can provide for          forfeiture or a freeze ­­ a freeze of assets pending            trial in any assault and battery case, spousal abuse         case, criminal negligence, date rape cases in order to         make the victim whole, to pay for medical costs, to pay           for pain and suffering, and can freeze those assets even          if the consequences of that is that in most of those           cases most people cannot afford counsel.                  MR. DREEBEN: So if ­­ if at the conclusion          of the case ­­               JUSTICE KENNEDY: That's the consequence of       your argument?              MR. DREEBEN: Well, I think that if there is           a ­­ yes, if there is a monetary assessment that will            become provable at the conclusion of the case and the          government can show a need to preserve the assets so           Alderson Reporting Company Official that they're available.                   I mean, think about the cases that you're     talking about, Justice Kennedy. They are cases in which          victims have been harmed. Serious medical costs may be          at issue. If the funds are spent on an attorney, they            will not be available for compensation.                  CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, and they're       all cases in which the defendant has not been found          guilty. And ­­ and in all those cases, I mean, all you              have to do, all the governments have to do, all the           State governments have to do, is provide for a fine and            argue, then, well, unless we ­­ if we don't freeze the           assets, there won't be money left to pay a fine. So             this could apply ­­ I guess this is the point. This             could apply to every crime on the books.                    MR. DREEBEN: So I ­­ I do think the Court             could draw distinctions among the types of fines and the          purposes of the fines that are at issue. So it's not ­­                        JUSTICE BREYER: Have you seen ­­ have you         seen the judgments in the fraud on the market cases? I            mean, it isn't too tough in cases involving fraud on the           market to find judgments of tens or hundreds of millions          of dollars, I mean, judgments in fines after         convictions, and that's what, I think, the question is.                      The principle of constitutional law that      Alderson Reporting Company Official you're advocating would, in fact, permit the freezing of         what might be paid afterwards in a fine which could be a             huge amount before the person is convicted. Am I right?                        MR. DREEBEN: So ­­ well, I ­­ I do think             that I was trying to say to the Chief Justice that there             could be distinctions that are drawn among various        monetary exactions. I think the strongest case is when           victim compensation is at issue. All the money in          the ­­ the context of a Medicare fraud case like this,            although it's not required by statute, it will be         returned to the Medicare trust fund. This is a fraud            against the people. $ million is obtained, we allege,          by fraud. Most of ­­                 CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: It goes to the        Medicaid trust fund?               MR. DREEBEN: Medicare trust fund,      provided to the Medicare trust fund.                  CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: The ­­ will go to         the victims?                          MR. DREEBEN: Yes.    CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Does that go to the         victims in case?               MR. DREEBEN: Well, the Medicare trust fund,        which represents basically the fiscal interests of the        people of the United States is the victim.        Alderson Reporting Company Official                         CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: I'm sorry?      MR. DREEBEN: The Medicare trust fund, from        which the funds came that we say are obtained by fraud,           is the victim. So the funds will be returned to the            victim. That's the purpose of trying to freeze the          funds in a health care case, so that they can be            returned.             JUSTICE GINSBURG: Mr. Dreeben, you're      saying that your ­­ your view, your interpretation, your         reading of the statute is the only tenable one, but if           one took the view that Justice Breyer's interpretation,        that restraining order means a temporary restraining        order, or it was another interpretation put forth in the          Americans for Forfeiture Reform brief, because if ­­ if         a judge were to take the position that all of ­­ all            three are plausible readings of the statute, but we'll         pick the one that allows the defendant to have counsel.                      MR. DREEBEN: So Justice Ginsburg, we don't        think that any of the alternative readings are        plausible. For the reasons that I explained to Justice           Breyer, this statute doesn't limit the restraining order        to temporary relief, nor would it make any logical sense          to do that because the purpose of this statute was to           preserve funds so that they would be available at the          conclusion of the case.    Alderson Reporting Company Official               I also think that the amicus argument is not        a tenable one because it simply reads "or equivalent         value" out of the statute and without any reference to          the context of the statute, which is to try to make the            government be able to be made whole at the conclusion of           a case if, in fact, it obtains a judgment given the very             difficult process of segregating out money in banking        and financial­type crimes.               JUSTICE KAGAN: Mr. Dreeben, if I could go          back to Justice Alito's questions about your       interpretation of the statute, I think what Justice         Alito was suggesting was that (a)()(A) would be        completely subsumed by (a)()(B) on your interpretation,       and I don't think that you got around to answering that            question.             MR. DREEBEN: So I ­­ I think that that ­­            that is true. I think this Court understands, from           arguments last week, that superfluity is no stranger to         congressional statutes. They do have a different focus,          though, and I think it was quite reasonable for Congress           to make clear what that focus is. (A) is aimed at the             person who's doing the dissipating themselves, the       person who obtained the property by fraud, and (B)         expands that out.               JUSTICE KAGAN: No, but in ­­ in just saying          Alderson Reporting Company Official that, you're essentially saying, yes, (B) expands it        out, meaning it covers everything that (A) covers and         some more.              MR. DREEBEN: Yes, but the ­­ it's not that          this is a statute that anyone's reading gives off          provisions of fact because the (b) section, (b)        permits restraining orders or prohibitions during the       course of the case as are needed to protect the          United States against the substantial injury. So that         provision would subsume the ­­ the reading that my         friend gives.              any ­­                         JUSTICE KAGAN: Do you think that there's        CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Go ahead.      JUSTICE KAGAN: Do you think that there's        any way to read this statute such that it applies to           people who wish to retain counsel as opposed to make          other expenditures?              MR. DREEBEN: No, I don't think there's any          reading of the statute that exempts counsel.                   It does give discretion to the district       court to entertain arguments. Those arguments were made         here and rejected.               CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, counsel.                   Mr. Srebnick, you have four minutes      Alderson Reporting Company Official remaining.           REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF HOWARD SREBNICK                    ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONER                 MR. SREBNICK: Thank you, Mr. Chief Justice.                      I think all of us who heard the argument of         Monsanto and Caplin & Drysdale when it was delivered in            understood the line was drawn between tainted and         untainted assets. And that was a line ­­ while the            defense bar had its druthers, was a line that was           accepted by the Court. The government proposes now to          move that line and essentially make the line disappear         altogether.                         Justice Alito ­­  JUSTICE ALITO: I don't want to use up your           rebuttal time, but I do want to ask you two quick            questions about the statute.                First is: Did you raise anything about this         in your cert petition? And the second is: Is there a             way to limit this to the Sixth Amendment context?                     MR. SREBNICK: The answer to the first        question is no. In our cert petition, since we were           constrained in the Eleventh Circuit by the       interpretation that had been given back in , we         focused on the constitutional issue in order to suggest         to the Court that the doctrine of constitutional        Alderson Reporting Company Official avoidance should be triggered because there's a Sixth         Amendment problem.              The Eleventh Circuit has concluded that the       statute is ambiguous.               JUSTICE ALITO: You didn't say anything       about constitutional avoidance in your cert position,       did you?              MR. SREBNICK: That is correct. We argued         that the Constitution would be violated, and because        this Court, in its discretion and indeed in the Rumsfeld          vs. FAIR case, looks at a statute even if the           interpretation is offered at the merit stage by an         amicus, the Court has considered those competing       interpretations in order to avoid the constitutional       issue.             Justice Scalia, in response to your question       about property, it sure sounded to anyone who heard the          argument and read the opinions in Monsanto and Caplin &          Drysdale that it was much about property. The         government, by invoking the taint theory, which does        date back to the founding of our nation, taints a          particular subject, and that is the tainted asset.        That's why it's called the taint theory. It's         counterintuitive to suggest that untainted assets should       be treated as tainted assets.     Alderson Reporting Company Official             And because, as I used the word earlier,         there must be a coexistence between the taint theory and           the right to counsel of choice, Monsanto drew the line,          Caplin & Drysdale drew the line and said if the           government can establish that the asset is tainted, it         can be frozen.               Nothing about Monsanto, nothing about Caplin      & Drysdale, suggested that assets over which the        government has no present property interest, no       relation­backed theory, no taint theory to speak of, can         then take Aunt Sally's money or a client's pension funds           needed to ­­ for representation to use those assets to          retain counsel. Nothing in this Court's precedent in         those cases suggests that.                And naturally, as a member of the defense         bar, we would welcome a revisiting of Monsanto and          Caplin & Drysdale because the parade of horribles is          here today. The government says quite candidly there is          no line. If the fine is $ million, the defendant has            to pony up, ante up $ million up front in order to            exercise his right to counsel. The right to counsel of           choice will have a price tag. And it is whatever the             government says the maximum fine is. Whatever the         maximum restitution is, that will be the price that the          defendant must pay in advance. It's an advance fee that           Alderson Reporting Company Official the defendant must pay according to the government in         order to be able to exercise his Sixth Amendment rights.          We ask the Court to reject such an interpretation.                                             CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, counsel.       The case is submitted.    (Whereupon, at : p.m., the      case in the   above­entitled matter was submitted.)    Alderson Reporting Company Official Official:, : : : Americans : amicus : : amount : :, : : amounts : announce : annual : answer : : : : : : A a.m : : ability : : : : able : : : : : : advance :, adversarial : adversary : : advice : advocating : affect : : above­entitled : afford : : abuse : academic : accepted : accident : accommodate afforded : ago : : agreed : ahead : : aimed : : alienation : : : : Alito : : : accommodated : : accommodation : account :, : accounts : : accurately : accusation : accused :, : acknowledgment : acquired : Act : activity :, : : : : :, add : : added : : address : addressed : addresses : adequate : : adequately : : adopted : : adoption : Page  : : :, authority : authorize : : : : automatically :, : : : arguments : : : : available : : : : :, : : articulated : aside : asked : : : asking :, aspects : : assault : : assessment : asset : : : : avoid : : avoidance : : :, avoids : B b : :,, :, : :, :, : bank :,,, assets :, :, back : :, : : : : : : background : bad : : bail : :,, :, : :, : : :,, :,,,, :,, : :,, :, balance : : :,, :, : :,, :, :, :, : :, : :,, :, :, : : : banking : : : : : :,, : :,, :, : :, :, :, : : :, :, :, :, :, : : banks : bar :, : barring : based : : : : : : bank's : : : : assistance : associated : assume : attachment : attempt : attorney : : : : : Aunt : basic : : : : :, basically :, : : basis :, battery : : bear : beginning : answering : ante : antifraud : :, :, anymore : : :, : anyone's : : :, anyway : apart : : : apparently : APPEARANCES Alito's : allegations : allege : alleged : allegedly : : allow : : : allowance : allowed : allows : : :,, : : Appendix : applied : applies : : : : apply : : : :, appointed : : :, : : : appointment : appropriate : area :, areas : alternative : altogether : ambiguous : amendment : :, :,, : :,, :,,,, argue : : argued : : :, :, : :,, arguing : argument : : :, : :, :, : : :,, :,, : :, : : : : : : : : :, : : : :, : : :, Alderson Reporting Company Alderson Reporting Company : behalf :, : :, : : : believe :, :, : : : belong : : belonging : belongs : : : : beyond : : : : bill : : : birthday :, bit : blue : bodily : boiler : bona : books : bought : break : Breyer :,, : :,, : :, : : : : :,, :,, : :, : : : Breyer's : brief :, : : : briefs : brings :, : : brothers :, brought : C C : : called : : candidly : Caplin : : : :, Page  considered : consistent : conspiracies : conspiracy : Constitution : : : : constitutional : : : : : : : : : : : : : : :, :, constitutionally : :, constrained : construed : contains : contemplated : context : : : : : :, : : : : contingent : contrary : controversial : convict : convicted : :, : : : conviction :, : : : : convictions : convincing : : :, : contributes : : : : :, : : control : controlled : : : Official : : : :,, charges : Chief :,, :, commingled : coming : care : : carry : case : : :, :, :,, : :, :, :, :, : : :, :, :, :,, : : :,, : :,, : : : :, : :,, :, : :, : : : :,, : :, :, : : : :, cases : : commits : committed : :,, :, :, :, :, :, :, : : :,, :, : : compelling : :,,, : :, : : : : common : compare : : compensation : choice :, : : : : : : : : : : : : : Circuit : : : circuits : : circumstances :, : : civil : : competing : complaining : : completely : complicated : : component : concede : concept : : concern : concerned : : concerns :, concluded : : conclusion : : : : : : : : : CJA : : :,,, CJA­appointed :, : cause : :, :,, : :,, : : :,, : : : : : : clearly : : : claim :, :, claims : clean : clear : : : : confines : conflated : Congress :, : : : : :, : client : client's : coexist :,, congressional coexistence : collect : combine : come : : connected : : : caused : century : cert : :, : certainly : : : : cetera : challenge : chance : changed : charge : Alderson Reporting Company consequence :, core : : : : : : : consequences comes : : : : :, : consideration comfortable : : correct : : :, : : : : cost : costs : : Official : : : discussion : : : : disincentivizing : : : defense : : disposal : : : : definition : degree : : degrees : delivered : Department : depends : deprivation : deprives : depriving : Deputy : derived : described : : disposition : : dispute : : : dissipated : : dissipating : : : dissipation : : distinction : :, : distinctions : : Page  :, :, : :,, :, : :,,, :,, :, :, drew :, driving : drug : :,, :, : :, :,, : : drunk :, druthers : Drysdale : : : :, : : : :,, describes :,, distinguish : due : : distinguishing : district : : :,, : : : : E E : :, doctrine : : earlier : : : : designed : despite : determine : determined : developed : devout : difference : : doing : : : : dollars : : dormant : :, :, : : : doubt : : : : : :, : earned : economically : economics : effect : :, either : : elements : Eleventh : : else's : : emanate : embedded : encompassed : enforce : enjoin : ensure : : ensuring : : : enter : entertain : entire : entitle : : crimes : : : : criminal : : : : : : : : : :,, : :, :, : : counsel :,, :,, :, : :,, :, :, : : : : :, : : : : : : : :,,, :,, : current :, : : : currently : :,, : :,, : critical : D counterintuitive : country : : course : : D : D.C :, da :,, daily : : : : damage : : : date : : court :, :, daughter's : : : : : days : deals : decades : decides : defects : defendant : :, : : : :,, : : : :, :,, :, :, : : : : :,, :,, : : :, : : : : : : : :, : day : : : destroys : : : courts : : Court's : : : different : : draw : : :, :,, : : : : :, : :, : : : : : : : :, : :,,, :,, : difficult : : :,, :, :,,, :,, : : : : : : : : :,, :, : :, : : : : defendant's : : : :, :, : : : drawn : : : : :, Dreeben : : :,, : : : : :, :, : : : :,,, :,,,, :,, : : :, :,,,, :, : : : : : :,, disappear : disbursement : discovery : discretion : :,, : : covers :, creditors : crime : : : : : differently : : : : Alderson Reporting Company : facts :, factual : : fair : : : forfeit : : follows : forbid : forbids : entitled : : : exercised : expands : : expect : envisioned : equitable :,, expenditure : equities : expenditures : equivalent : : :, : : expenses :, : : : : : : explain : explained : explicitly :, essence : : expressed : ESQ :, :, : : essentially : : : establish :, : established : : : : establishes : : estate : et : evanescent : event : events : evidence : : expressing : extend : F fabric : faces : fact : : : : : : : fairly : family : Fang : far : : favor : feature : exact : exactions : exactly : : example : : fee : : : : : exception : fewer : fide : figure : : : : final : : : financial : : exceptions : : exciting : exclusive : execute : execution : exempts : exercise : : : : : : : financial­type : find : : finding :,, : fine :,, : :, : :, fined : Official fines :,, finish : first : :, : :, : : : : : : :, :, fiscal : five : Fla : flat : flight :, flow :, flows : focus : : :, : : frauds :, free : freeze : : : : : :, : : freezing : : friend : fringes : front : frozen : frustrating : fulfill : function : fund : : focused : : follow :, following : :,,,, : funds : :, : : : : : : :, :, :,, : :, : : :,,, : fungible :, : : : : further : future : G G : game : general : : : :, : General's : gift : Ginsburg :, : : : : :, give : : :, : given : : : : forfeitability : forfeitable : : : forfeited : forfeiture : : :, :,, : :,, :, : form : : forth : found : : : : founding : four : Fourth : fraction : frankly : : fraud : : : : : : :,, Page  : : : gives : : :, giving : go :, : : : : : : : : : : goes :, : :, : : : : : going : : :, : : : : : : : : : : good : : govern : governed : government : : : :, : :, : :,, : :,, : :, : :,,, :,, : : :, :,, : :,, : : :, : :, : : : : :,, : : government's : : : : : : governments : : grand : guarantee : guess : : : : guilty : : Alderson Reporting Company Official intuition :, : intuitive : investigation : invoking : involving : : : issue : :, : : : : : : : : : : : : : issues : : : J jail : : jewelry : Joint : Jones : judge : :, : : judgment : Page  : :, : kinds : : know : :, : : :, : : : :,, : : :, : :,, :,,, : : : : : : :, :,, :, kind : : :,, : :,, : :,, :,,,, : :,, : :, :, :, : :,, :, :, :,,, :,, :, :, :,, knowing : :,, : knows : :, : : : : : :,,,, : :,, :,, :,, Laughter : : : :,, :,,, :,,,, :,,, :,,, :,, : : : laundering : law : : : : :, : : : labors : language : lawful : : : L : : inception :, incidence : include :, includes : including :, indict : indicted : indictment : :,, : : indigent :, : individual's : inflict : inheritance : : injunction : : : : : :, injunctive : injury :, : : : innocent :, insofar : instance : instances : : interest : : : :,,,, :, : : :, : : : : Justice's : : : : : : :, : : : K :, : : :, : : : judgments : : :, : :, interests : : jury :, Justice : :, Kagan : :, : : : : : : :, :, : : : interferes : interim :, interpret : interpretation : :,, : : : : : interpretations : interpreted : interrelated : : : : :, : :,, : Kagan's : :, :,, Kaley :, : :,, : :,,,, :,,, :, keep : : : :,, : : : keeping : :, :, Kennedy : : : :,, :, : :, :, :, :,, :, :, :, : :,, : : : : lawfully : :, laws : lawyer : : : : : : :, : :, : lawyers : : leaves : left : : : legal : : let's : : : : : : levy : liberty : : : : guy : H happens : : : hard : :, harmed : health : healthcare : : : hear : : : heard :, : : : hearing : : :,, : hearings : held : hire : : : : : : history : holding : hope : : horribles : hours : HOWARD : :, : : huge : hundreds : hypothetical : I idea : illegal : Illinois : imagine : immediacy : immediate : immediately : important : : : impose : imposes : impoverish : improved : incarceration Alderson Reporting Company license :, life­or­death : : light : : limit :, mattered : matters : needs : : : : : : : :, : : : : : : : : money :, : :,,,, : :, :, : :,,, : needed :, : :, :, : :, :,,, : : : :,,, :,, : :,, : negated : :,, : negates : : :, :, negligence : :, :,, never :, : : : : :,, new : : :,,,, nice : :,,, :,, : : : : : non­tainted : notion :, notwithstanding :, : :, : : : : : : : maximum :, : : limited :, : mean : : : : : : : : : : : :, :, line :, : : : : :,,, : :, meaning : means : : : : Lisa :,, literally : little : : locality : lock : lockdown : Locking : locks : logic :, :, Medicaid : : : meant : measure : measures : Mecca :,, mechanism : : logical : : long : : look : : looking : looks : loot : lose : loses : lot : luck : Luis : : : : medical : : : Medicare :, :,,,, : member : members : merely : merit : Miami : MICHAEL : : : milk : million :,,, : Monsanto :, November : number : :, :, :, :,,, :,, : : :, :, : :,, O : : :,,, :,, : : : :, objection : : : : O object : : mortgage : mount : move : obligation : observation : observed : obtain : : office : oh : : Okay : : once : : : : one's : operation : opinion : : opinions : opportunity : : opposed : oral : :, : : order :,, : : : : :,, : :, : :,, : : : : orders : ordinary : organized : ought : : outcome : override : : owe : owned :, : owner : ownership : owns : : P Official Page  matter : : : : : need : :,, offered : :, : : Muslim : :, M major : majority : making : : mind : : millions : : minutes : malicious :, mischief : man : man's :, manage :, managed : market :, mixed : moment : : : Mona :,, monetary : N N :, : nation : : naturally : nature : necessarily : : necessary : : : : obtained : : : : : P : p.m : page : : : paid : obtains : : pain : : : obviated : obviously : occurs : offense : parade : parallel : part : : : : particular : Alderson Reporting Company Official Page  price :, primary : principle : : : : : :,, :,, : :, : :, : : : : : question : : : : : : :,, :, : :,,,,, :,,, : :, : : : :, : : : : :, : proposed : : : : : : : : prior : private : : proposes : : : : : proposing : privileged : proposition : probable : : propositions : questions : : : quick : quite : : : problematic : provided : procedure : : : : rationale : : : particularly : party : partying : passed : path :, Patterson : pay :,,, paying : : payment :,, pays : penalties : pending : penny : pension : : : : petitioner's : pick : pile :, plausible :, please : : point : : : : : :, : :, : policy : pony : Ponzi : position :, : : : : : : : postconviction :, postjudgment :, : : : : : : : pointed : : people : : : : : : posttrial : : :, : pot :, power : powerful :, people's : percent :, period : permanent : permit : : practicing : precedence : precedent : precise : permits : : prefers : : : prejudgment : premise : : : : permitted : permitting : person :, :, : :, : prosecution : :,,, :,,,, :, :,, protect : : : : protected : : : : protects : : provable : problem : : provide : : : : : : proceeded : proceeding : : :, : proceeds : : process : : prohibit : prohibition : : prohibitions : provides : providing : proving : provision : : : provisions : : punishing : punishment : : : : :, pure : purporting : purpose :, : : : : purposes : : R R : : : : raise : : : raised : rape : rates : reach : reaches : read : : :, : : : : reading : : : : :,, readings :, reads : real : realize : : really : : : :, : : : reason : : : reasonable : :, : : : : reasons : : rebuttal : : : :, : preserve : : : person's : personal : personam : perspective : persuasive : petition : : pretty :, prevails : prevent : : present : : prohibits : projected : proof : property : : :, : : : : : : : : : :,, put : puts : : :, :,, : putting : : : : : :,,,, pretrial : : : : : :, : : petitioner :, :, : : : : : : : Q Alderson Reporting Company received : recognized : : recognizes : refer : reference : : requires : reserve : resolved : : resolves : respect :, : Respectfully : : : response :, referring : : Respondent : reflects : Reform : refused : regard : regardless : regards : reject : rejected :, responses : restitution :, restrain :, : : : : relation­backed : : relatively : release : released : releasing : relief : : : : : : : :, :, :,, : :, restrained : restraining :, : : : :,, : : :,, :,, : : : : : : restraint :, religious : rely : relying : remaining : : restraints : remedy : remember : remind : render : rent :, : repeating : represent : : retirement : returned : :, representation : : : represented : :, revisiting : rich : : Official : :,, : : : :, :, :, : : : : : :, : :,, rightful : rightfully : rights : : : : : : : : : road : rob : robber :, : robbery : : : ROBERTS :, : : :,, : :, : : : :,, : : : : :,, : :, : room : root : : routine : rule : :, Rumsfeld : run : : S S : : Page  says :, : : : : : : sides : : : : : : : SILA : : significant : Scalia : : : : : :, : :, :, : :, : scheme : second :, : :, : section : : : : : sections : secure : : secured : seek : :, :, seeking : seen :, sees : segregated : segregating : seizing : seizure : sense : : : : : : :, : : sent : sentence :, : similarly : simple : : simpleminded : simply :, : : : : : single :, singled : situated : situation : : : : situations : Sixth : :, :,, : :,,, : :,, :,,,, : : : :,,, : : : : : : :, : :, : : : slightly : Smith : : so­called : : : : Solicitor : : : : somebody : separate : : : : : :, separation : serious : : : services : show : : : somebody's : soon : sorry : sort : : : sorts : Sotomayor : showing : : shown : side :,, :, :,, : : : :, : rests : result : : retain : : : : : : : : rules : :, :, : : : : : : : : right :,,, Sally's : satisfy : : : : saying : : : : : :, : : :,, : :, :, :,, : : :,, :, : : : : : : represents : requesting : required : Alderson Reporting Company Official :,,, : substituted : substitution : subsume : subsumed : suffer : suffering : : sufficient : suggest : : : : suggested : : suggesting : suggestion : : : suggests : suit : superfluity : support : suppose : : : : :, :, : :,, :, :, : : Sotomayor's : sound : sounded : speak : : special : specific :, specifically : : : : speedy : spend : : : : : : :, spends :, : spent :, : State : : : States :,, : : : statute : : :, : : :,, :, :, :, : : :, : :, : :, : :, :,,, : : : :,, : :, :, : : : : :,, : statutes : : split : spousal : Srebnick : :, steal :, : : statutorily : statutory :, : :,,, :, : : :, :,, :, : :,, :,, : :, :, :, : :, :, : :, : :,, :,, :, : :, : : : submission : : : :, : : stage : stake : : submit : submitted :, subsection : : : : standard : start : started : : starting : subset : substantial : substantive : substitute : : : : :,, : Page  taints : take : :, :, : thinks : :,, : thought : : : : : : : : threatens : : :, taken : takes : : : : talk : talked : talking : : : : : : : talks : targeting : technical : temporary : tenable : : tens : Thank : :, : : : theory : : :, :, : thing : : things : : : :, think : : three : : time :, : : : : : :, : tiny : title : : : today : : : : : told : totally : : touch : tough : trace : traceability : traceable : : : traced : tracing : : transactions : travels :, treated : : treatment : treats : trial : : :,, : touchstone : :, Supreme :, stipulated :, sure : : stipulation : stole : stop : : stranger : strong : : surely : : sustained : swallow : : : T stronger : : T :, strongest : struck : subject : : :, tag : taint : :, : trip : : : triggered :, :, :, :, :, : : :, :,,, :,, : : : : TRO :,, : :,, : :,, : : : : : :, : : : :, :, true :, : :, :, :, :, :,, :, : : :,, :,, : trust : : TROs : troubled : trumps : tainted : : : : :, : : :, :, :, :, : :, :,, :, :, : : : :,, : : :, : Alderson Reporting Company :,,, : try : : :, :, : : : trying : : : Tuesday : tuition : :, : : turned : turns : twin : two :, : : : : : : : :, : : : : type : types : : U U.S.C :, ultimate :, :, : uncle : : uncomfortable :, underlying : : understand : :,, :, : understands : understood : : : : undisputedly : : union : : United :,, : : : unlawfully : unquantified : untainted : : :, : :, :, :, :,, :, : : : :, : : : : : :, : : : :, : : unusual : use : :, : : :, : : : : : : : : : : : : : uses :, usually : V v : : : valid : value : : : : : various : : verdict : versus : victim : : : :, :, victims : : : : : : : : :, view : :, vintage : violate : violated : violation : :, : virtue : vs : W want : : : : : Official : : : : wanted : wanting : wants : : : Washington :, way : : : : : : ways : :, we'll :, : we're : :, : : : : : we've : week : welcome : wholly : wife : wily : win : wins : : wish : wishes : woman : word : : words : : work : : :, world : worry : : worth :, Wouldn't : write : : wrong : wrote : X x :, : Y Y :, yeah : : year : : Page  years : :, : yesterday : :, , :,, : : , : :,, : : : : : Z zero­sum : : :, : :, : , : : : , : : :, : : : : : :, : : : : (b) : ­ : : , : : : :, : : :, : : : :, :, :, (A) : : th : : : : : : : : :, : Alderson Reporting Company 