 Official        IN THE SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES        ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ x                                  KINGDOMWARE TECHNOLOGIES,           INC.,                              : :             Petitioner                : No. ­                                  v. UNITED STATES.                      : : ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ x                                                         Washington, D.C.                         Monday, February ,                  The above­entitled matter came on for oral       argument before the Supreme Court of the United States         at : a.m.   APPEARANCES: THOMAS G. SAUNDERS, ESQ., Washington, D.C.; on behalf           of Petitioner.  ZACHARY D. TRIPP, ESQ., Assistant to the Solicitor              General, Department of Justice, Washington, D.C.; on       behalf of Respondent.   Alderson Reporting Company Official                                    C O N T E N T S ORAL ARGUMENT OF                                      PAGE THOMAS G. SAUNDERS, ESQ.       On behalf of the Petitioner                            ORAL ARGUMENT OF   ZACHARY D. TRIPP, ESQ.       On behalf of the Respondent                            REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF   THOMAS G. SAUNDERS, ESQ.       On behalf of the Petitioner                            Alderson Reporting Company Official                                       P R O C E E D I N G S                                            (: a.m.)              CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: We'll hear argument       first this morning in Case No. ­, Kingdomware        Technologies v. United States.                Mr. Saunders.             ORAL ARGUMENT OF THOMAS G. SAUNDERS                     ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONER                 MR. SAUNDERS: Mr. Chief Justice, and may it         please the Court:               By its plain terms, the Veterans Act        requires the VA to consider veterans first under the         Rule of Two before awarding contracts to other        suppliers.             That mandate, which applies only to the VA        and reflects the agency's unique obligation to veterans,        contains no exception for the contracts formed when the         VA makes awards under the Federal Supply Schedule. And          the government's attempt to create such an exception        fares no better than its prior attempts to resist the          mandate.             Its semantic distinction between contracts     and orders conflicts with its own concession that an FSS          order is a contract in the ordinary sense. It           creates ­­ Alderson Reporting Company Official             JUSTICE ALITO: Before you get too deeply        into the merits of the case, could you just tell us what            relief you could get at this point that's consistent         with the Tucker Act?                MR. SAUNDERS: We're seeking a declaratory        judgment that, with respect to these particular       procurements, the VA erred in failing to conduct market         research and ­­ and to apply the Rule of Two before           going straight to the FSS.                 JUSTICE GINSBURG: On the ground that this        is capable of repetition yet evasive of review, is that          your ­­ your answer to the mootness?                   MR. SAUNDERS: Absolutely. It's ­­ it's        recurred ­­ the same situation's recurred numerous       times. Even during the course of this litigation,         Kingdomware continues to be actively competing for these        contracts, and these contracts are of a short duration.                      JUSTICE KENNEDY: What was the amount of        this contract?              MR. SAUNDERS: This contract was for a base          amount of $,.               JUSTICE ALITO: Isn't it strange to get a         declaratory judgment that something unlawful occurred in       the past but that no other relief is available for this           past violation of the law?     Alderson Reporting Company Official             MR. SAUNDERS: Well, no other relief is        available solely because of the passage of time it has          taken for this case to work its way up to this Court.            And that's why the doctrine of capable of repetition yet          evading a view ­­ review is ­­                   JUSTICE ALITO: What ­­ what I'm getting at         is: What good would such a declaratory judgment do?                       MR. SAUNDERS: Well, once ­­ once the legal         rights, once the meaning of (d) is established in         this case by that declaratory judgment, then going        forward, you would expect that the VA will comply with          this Court's interpretation of the law. And so it would           be a tremendous benefit to the veterans community going          forward from that declaration, from that elucidation of        the legal rights here.                JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: You did ­­ your client        stipulated away the cost that it would have been         entitled to after winning before the GAO, correct?                    MR. SAUNDERS: The ­­                JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: So there was relief.       You just gave it away, essentially.                  MR. SAUNDERS: Well, the ­­ the Tucker Act         doesn't allow for the protest costs, and so the ­­ the           relevant costs that might have been allowed would be bid          preparation costs.  Alderson Reporting Company Official             But the very point of this case is there         wasn't an opportunity to bid. This isn't a situation in            which the opportunity was put out there and Kingdomware         was able to compete for it. It was ­­ it skipped            through the Rule of Two process required by , went          straight to the Federal Supply Schedule, and the first         that Kingdomware ever learned of it was when the         announcement went up saying that the contract had been         awarded on the sole­source basis to someone else under         the Federal Supply Schedule.                So under the circumstances of this case,       where it's about the government going to a procedure it           shouldn't be going to first, there's no opportunity to         amass those bid protests.                JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Your client is still an        FSS vendor and is still competing for contact ­­        contracts that the ­­               MR. SAUNDERS: Yes.                JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Okay.                MR. SAUNDERS: And ­­ and our client ­­ he's          listed it in the FSS, but most importantly for this case           is a service­disabled veteran­owned small business and        continues to be listed in the VA's database, which         limits the eligibility for the Rule of Two here.                     JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: The government takes the       Alderson Reporting Company Official position that if we rule in your favor, that means that           we're doing away with, effectively, the FSS.                               Is that your view?    MR. SAUNDERS: No. Absolutely not. The FSS          is still going to apply to a large number of           procurements. Congress, when it made this targeted        provision mandatory and focused on the VA, also said in          (e) that it only applies to the businesses that are          registered in the VA's database.                 And it did that for two reasons: Number         one, as opposed to the self­certification procedures of        the Small Business Act, which are more open to abuse, it           wanted to prescreen and make sure these are the real          deal here in the database. And that also ensures that           the VA has this information at its fingertips.                    Currently, there are about , people      listed in that database. There are going to be tons of            procurements for which the VA will simply consult its         own database and see that there is no veteran­owned         business that's eligible to do this.                  JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Can it tell from that        database whether or not a particular vendor is a veteran            or a disabled veteran?                 MR. SAUNDERS: Oh, absolutely. The ­­ the         database ­­ and this is one ­­ this is very clear ­­ the             Alderson Reporting Company Official VA has its own VA­specific database mandated by law that          is limited to veteran­owned and service­disabled,      veteran­owned small businesses. And the only people who         are eligible under (e) for this preference are        people who are contained in that database.                   JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Well, there's two      databases. There is the general database and there is          the FSS database. Are we talking about the same one?                       MR. SAUNDERS: No, we're talk ­­ we're        talking about a separate VA­specific database. And ­­         and so what's happening is the VA is gathering in this           information. It knows who the veteran­owned small        businesses are. And then, rather than consulting its         own database to see who they are, it's been going          straight to the FSS.                JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Which ­­ and then you        are wanting to do away with the FSS?                    MR. SAUNDERS: No, not at all. Because ­­                     JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: So they go through the        FSS and find the veteran­owned businesses?                  MR. SAUNDERS: Not ­­ not under this        mandate, because the ­­ the mandate here in the law is           tied to the VA's database. And people who are listed as            a veteran­owned small business under the FSS database        don't go through those same ­­     Alderson Reporting Company Official             JUSTICE GINSBURG: Mr. Saunders, I think        that Justice Sotomayor's question is asking you to        address what happens if there's than urgent need. I          think you would concede it's a slower process if you           have to use the Rule of Two. And ­­ and suppose there             is an urgent need for a certain good or service.                       MR. SAUNDERS: Well, two things: Number        one, the Rule of Two only applies when you have both           fair and reasonable price and best value to the         United States. So if there's truly an urgent need and           it's not going to be met by going through the Rule of            Two, then I think you have leeway within the best­value           determination.             CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, but that       strikes me as a ­­ a very thin protection.                       Are ­­ these terms imply a lot of         discretion: What's fair? What's reasonable? What's         best value? The idea that that's going to operate as a            significant restraint on the requirement that the VA        locate veteran businesses seems a real stretch to me.                      MR. SAUNDERS: But ­­ but the process        here ­­ I mean ­­ take you through the process of            applying the Rule of Two. It's limited to the universe           of the people in the database. So all the VA has to do              is fire up its own database and see who's out there.           Alderson Reporting Company Official For the heartland ­­   JUSTICE KAGAN: How is it apparent that a                                 particular veteran's business can perform a particular        contract? I mean, what in the database shows you, yes,            this veteran's small business is capable of performing        this contract in a reasonably effective way?                    MR. SAUNDERS: The ­­ because the database        has the North American Industry Classification System       codes, which are actually the same codes that correspond         to what's in the FSS.                 And to the extent there is additional       information that's needed, it's very easy to contact the         veterans in those ­­ that database.                  CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Counsel, could you       get back to your answer to my question?                    MR. SAUNDERS: Oh. And ­­ and so there's ­­          for the heartland of ­­ of small­business contracting,        the ­­ are going to fall into the simplified acquisition          procedures under part of the Federal Acquisition        Regulation. That's for services under $,. And         for procurement of goods, it's now up to $ million.                      And under that system, you have a greatly         streamlined process for the smallest contracts, micro       purchases. It's ­­ it's really just you make the          decision for the sort of lower tier of contracts,         Alderson Reporting Company Official certainly for anything under $,, all the ­­ all the          government's doing is placing a purchase order under the          simplified acquisition procedures.               There is a standard form. It's Form .          It's a single sheet of paper. And that's the purchase            order that they place. And quite frankly, the form          looks almost identical to FSS Form for how you place           the order.              So for the lower­level stuff, there is       already a procedure outside the FSS that's incredibly         streamlined. And as you begin to get to larger          dollar­valued contracts, the requirements of going      within the FSS begin to ramp up in terms of having to            seek price reductions. And also, if you think of how           the FSS operates in terms of services, you might be          listed on there for the GSA as someone who can provide           information technology, customized computer programming.                 But to go to Justice Kagan's question about        how do you know can you actually do this work? That            same process plays out under the FSS. For the services,           yes, someone's listed as a custom computer programmer.         But the agency still has to issue a statement of work            saying this is what we actually need done. Here are our            requirements. It puts that out there with their request          for quotations that come in from the various FSS         Alderson Reporting Company Official suppliers.             Now, they will be constrained by, you know,        the prices that they listed before on the FSS, but it           still is an interactive process. It's not just firing          up the computer and ­­ and clicking ­­                   it ­­             JUSTICE GINSBURG: When is it ­­ what's        JUSTICE KENNEDY: And I suppose there is         some system for the government to check to see whether          or not this person really has been offering this good,          has ­­ has a track record, because that goes with the            fair and reasonable price?                MR. SAUNDERS: Yes, absolutely. And they        can compare, you know, a broad ­­ when they're doing the            market research, they have a lot of flexibility to          compare here.              The other thing I will say is that there is           a broad grant of discretion to the VA in terms of what            it requires in the database. So if it finds that it            needs more information to make this law work up front          from the vendors, then it can require that. It can take            the effort that it spent resisting the mandate and put          it into making the mandate work within its existing ­­                     JUSTICE BREYER: Is this the case ­­                   JUSTICE GINSBURG: You mentioned the best       Alderson Reporting Company Official value to the United States is one of the qualifications.                        I understand fair and reasonable price. But       what is offer best value to the United States? What           does that add to the fair and reasonable price?                     MR. SAUNDERS: Well, best value is designed        to go beyond price. It's ­­ it's really sort of the            totality of the circumstances. It lets the government         consider quality, its ­­ its needs. In this case it           would allow it to consider the urgency of a particular           procurement.             CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, the sort of        thing that there will be an awful lot of litigation          about, don't you think?                MR. SAUNDERS: Against    a framework that has      been recognized, the discretion ­­    you know, there's    litigation within an APA framework      in terms of arbitrary    and capricious review.               CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:     Well, you're putting   a lot more weight on that ­­ excuse me ­­ on that            provision if you prevail on your statutory       interpretation argument. And it seems to me that that          provision is inevitably going to lead to litigation.        How do you tell what's best? It's a combination of            price and quality. It's not any absolute that you can           identify, and you know, what's fair, what's reasonable.        Alderson Reporting Company Official               I ­­ I think the businesses that you        represent would be litigating those terms ­­ it's hard         to say ­­ almost in every case.                   MR. SAUNDERS: I ­­ given the ­­ the          standards for making that out, I don't think that you           would see rampant litigation in this area in terms of          the ­­ the squishiness of the time cuts in favor of the            government in that sense there.                 JUSTICE KENNEDY: How do ­­ how do we know          how to evaluate your answer or the government's position         if the government comes and says, oh, this is just          unworkable, it's going to be difficult if we've never         been involved in government contracting? Are there        findings? Are there ­­ are there writings in law          reviews or what ­­ what do we look to, to determine the            empirical basis for your argument, or the lack of         empirical basis for your argument?                             MR. SAUNDERS: I think it's looking to ­­         JUSTICE KENNEDY: Based on what we think is         going to happen?               MR. SAUNDERS: Well, no. It's looking to         the ­­ the authorities that exist on the face of the           statute, in terms of look at the simplified acquisition         procedures and how streamlined they can be, look at the          FSS procedures and how complicated and ­­ and ­­ they          Alderson Reporting Company Official can be as the dollar values ramp up.                    JUSTICE GINSBURG: But there is no empirical        evidence because this is ­­ this is a new kind of            provision, this mandatory set­aside; isn't that true?       So we don't have any ­­ any logic. We don't have any             experience at all.               MR. SAUNDERS: We ­­ we don't have direct         experience with the mandatory provision like this       because it's been resisted for a decade and hasn't          gone ­­             using it?              JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Hasn't the SBA been       MR. SAUNDERS: Well, under the Small       Business Act, there were agencies that were doing        set­asides, and then it was made explicit that they         could do set­asides within the FSS. We also have been           dealing with situations for many years where you have         other preferences outside of the Small Business Act        framework in terms of Federal Prison Industries, the        AbilityOne Program for the blind and the severely        disabled that have always taken precedence over the FSS.         And it's not proved to be unworkable to give those          mandates mandatory effect without going to the FSS.                    And you know, we've also cited ­­ you see in          our reply briefs ­­ sources saying ­­ and we have a           Alderson Reporting Company Official treatise that we've cited ­­ that's discussed the fact         that the simplified acquisition procedures for these low        value contracts are just as simple, if not in many ways,           simpler.             JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: But you're not talking       about just the small value contracts. You want the          supply to all contracts, to all orders. So to tell me            that it works for the small ones is not answering the           questions of my colleagues. How much is it going to           complicate the big ones?                MR. SAUNDERS: Well, for the ­­ for the big          ones, the FSS itself is already complicated. It's         already ramping up in complexity as the contracts get         bigger.             And quite frankly, when we get to those        bigger dollar figures, the idea that if ­­ if a small            business is going to qualify for a contract that's above           $,, that we can't go through the procedures that         Congress mandated here, the VA can't even consult its         own database and see whether there's an eligible        supplier before going straight to the FSS I don't think           holds water in that sense.                 And at the end of the day here, we're         looking at a mandate that was plain on its face in terms             of Congress saying shall award contracts, contracts       Alderson Reporting Company Official being an expansive, all­inclusive term here. And these         policy judgments are judgments that Congress made in        terms of the administrative feasibility of this when it         decided to move away from the failed Small Business Act          approach and go to the mandatory approach here.                     JUSTICE BREYER: That's why I wondered ­­       I'm not certain how this works ­­ that I read the            statute. It says, "The department shall award contracts         on the basis of competition restricted to veterans. If,          if, if. Okay? Well, what wouldn't be awarded according           to veterans? I mean, what was surprising to me is that             the goal was to have percent awarded to veterans.                       But if I read this the way you read it,           everything will be awarded to veterans. I mean, maybe           not literally, but there are millions of veterans.        There are probably hundreds of thousands or millions of         veterans' businesses. So wouldn't everything be awarded        to veterans? What wouldn't be?                  MR. SAUNDERS: No, not ­­ not at all.                     JUSTICE BREYER: What wouldn't? That's what        I want you to address.                 MR. SAUNDERS: The vast ­­ for the ­­ given          the limited number of veteran­owned small businesses       that are out there, and ­­                 JUSTICE BREYER: How many are there?       Alderson Reporting Company Official             MR. SAUNDERS: When ­­ when Congress was        going through the legislative history here, it was        hearing that maybe percent of businesses. So         there ­­             JUSTICE BREYER: It may be percent of         businesses, but the question is what does the Department         of Veterans Affairs buy? And my guess is they buy lots            of stuff. They buy household stuff, they buy paper          towels, they buy buildings, they buy all kinds of         things. And in respect to all the things they buy, if            you read this, a contract supplies to everything. I           guess they'll buy it all from veterans. Now, it's          just ­­ or percent, I don't know. It's very            surprising to me that Congress would have wanted the         Veterans Administration to buy everything from veterans.       Now ­­ now, that's ­­ or nearly everything.                    Now you explain to me ­­ I must be missing           something ­­ and ­­ and you explain to me what I'm           missing.             MR. SAUNDERS: First, the ­­ the fair and         reasonable price and best value requirement ­­                  JUSTICE BREYER: No, no, I understand that.         I said they have certain qualifications, of course. Do          you think the veterans ­­ things aren't ­­ they have          reasonable prices. They ­­ they have ­­ they're         Alderson Reporting Company Official qualified. They do a fine job. Let's say it's            surprising that Congress would have wanted nearly       everything to be bought from veterans, that's all. And          where am I wrong?                 MR. SAUNDERS: You're wrong in terms of        the ­­ the natural cap on the limit of businesses that           are out there, but where there is a veteran­owned small           business that can perform the requirement ­­                  perform.                         JUSTICE BREYER: I'm not saying they can't        MR. SAUNDERS: No, no. I'm saying ­­        JUSTICE BREYER: I want you to address what          you're calling this natural cap. You're saying to me          you're wrong, it doesn't mean everything, it means like          percent. Is that what you're saying? Or what ­­           what are you saying?                Explain what it is. I read it. I thought             it's everything. Now you explain why it isn't         everything or nearly everything. I mean, if you're not           a veteran, Congress wouldn't normally say you don't get         a leg up, but to shut you out entirely? I mean,             that's ­­ that's just my problem that I want you to            explain.             MR. SAUNDERS: It's ­­ it is everything, all         the contracts for which there is a veteran­owned small          Alderson Reporting Company Official business that can supply ­­                JUSTICE BREYER: Are you saying Congress       want ­­ just wanted everything that veterans can supply         to be supplied by veterans? And if I say, is that             everything, it's not ­­ it's not a hundred percent,           probably not percent, but it might be percent. I            mean, I'm guessing. You tell me. You're the expert.           What percent is it when you win?                   MR. SAUNDERS: When I win I don't think           we're going to be talking about numbers that high.         Congress in the legislative history was talking about         percent of the ­­               JUSTICE KENNEDY: I thought your answer        would be a hundred percent.                  MR. SAUNDERS: I'm just saying as a        practical matter. In terms of what Congress ­­                                JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: What's the ­­     JUSTICE KENNEDY: What is your answer to        Justice Breyer? A hundred percent provided the         statutory requirements are satisfied?                MR. SAUNDERS: Yes; that is correct. When         there is a business ­­                 JUSTICE KENNEDY: And we know how many        businesses there are because they registered under a        special procedure.  Alderson Reporting Company Official             MR. SAUNDERS: Right. And so when there is          the business that's available, yes, it should be getting         all those opportunities. That's exactly what       Congress ­­             JUSTICE KAGAN: Well, what Justice ­­ what        ­­ Justice Breyer raised a question about the way this           statute is worded because it says, "For purposes of         meeting the goals." And the goals are very low; the           goals are percent.                 So it seems odd for a statute to say for           persons of meeting a ­percent goal, you should do the           following, which will lead to percent.                   MR. SAUNDERS: Well, a few points, Justice         Kagan. First, the ­percent goal was the        government­wide goal under the Small Business Act. This         provision for service­disabled veterans requires the VA       to set a higher goal.                              JUSTICE KAGAN: How high?     MR. SAUNDERS: It doesn't ­­ it doesn't        require the specific number. It has to be higher than            percent. And we're talking about ­­                               JUSTICE KAGAN: That could be four percent.        MR. SAUNDERS: It ­­ it could be, but we're          talking about a period in time when there have been           goals since , discretionary authority since .       Alderson Reporting Company Official And as of , the government's progress towards its         ­percent goal was ., six­tenths of percent.                     JUSTICE KAGAN: No, it sounds like the        government did very badly in meeting its goals. And you           can understand why Congress would have done something to         say the government ­­ and specifically the VA ­­ has to           do a lot better toward meeting its goals.                       But the goals are still, you know, pretty      far down compared to what Justice Breyer was indicating         is the natural tendency of this system that you're         describing to produce ­­ you know, almost everything is         given to a veteran.                 MR. SAUNDERS: Well, where there is a        veteran that's eligible. But even at the time that this           was done, the goals had always been a percent            government­wide goal. Individual agencies were required       to set their goals based on the maximum practical         opportunity, and so even at the time going into this,          the VA had already set a higher goal. I believe it was                percent.              The goals that it had set under the statute         have been even higher than that. And the answer is,           yes, the government was expecting the VA ­­ this to be           an important mandate for the VA because this was tied to           the VA's unique obligation to help veteran­owned small        Alderson Reporting Company Official businesses rather than setting up ­­                 CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: You ­­ you mentioned        that the ­­ you've mentioned several times, I think,          that there has to be a veterans ­­ veteran­owned          business that's eligible as ­­ as ­­ but don't you think           there will be a lot more veteran­owned businesses if you           prevail? In other words, if everything is open to the           preference, as long as there is, you know, two that get           the preference, don't you think a lot more veterans ­­          won't it make a lot more sense for them to go into             business rather than some other line of work?                    MR. SAUNDERS: It may well be. And Congress          would think that's fantastic. We're ­­                  CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, you shouldn't       be telling us that the limitation is that there's only          so many veteran­owned businesses, because if you       prevail, there will be many times that.                   MR. SAUNDERS: Yeah. And there could be,         and then that ­­ you know, this was enacted at a time in               where we were facing incredible unemployment rate        among veterans. And so if this is encouraging formation          of more veteran­owned small businesses ­­                 JUSTICE BREYER: I see many good things.         People would enlist in the Armed Forces. They would          have careers assured after. It just still surprises me,          Alderson Reporting Company Official but my question is not really aimed at you. It's aimed            at the other side, and you would have a chance to answer             this question.                I can understand. I accept your argument,        pretty much. I don't know why there would be any            exception to the SS ­­ the FSS, or whatever it's called.                       But I was rather stopped by the lower         court's argument which they have given up, which is that          right in the statute, not in a preference, but right in            the statute it says, "For purposes of meeting the         goals," under Section A. That, I understand.                     And then what you do is you'd have goals;         they should be tough goals, and ­­ and if you're way           ahead of the goals, then maybe you don't have to do it.            That was their argument. The government's given that         up.             So ­­ so I don't know what to do. I mean,              I'm going to ask them for help ­­                                           MR. SAUNDERS: But ­­    JUSTICE BREYER: ­­ and then ­­ the same ­­         MR. SAUNDERS: The government has given that        up because the stated purpose of setting those goals was          to increase contracting opportunities. And the House        report here was referring to tools to meet, if not          exceed, its contracting goals. The goals were never         Alderson Reporting Company Official intended to be ceilings here. And if, in retrospect, it           seems like there might be some mismatch between the         mandate and the goals, you have to remember that at this           time they were so far from meeting even the more modest           goals that Congress was thinking of this in mandatory         terms: We have to do everything we can here to ramp up             this obligation, because the old approaches, the       discretionary approaches aren't working.                And the idea that in doing that they would,         without saying anything to that effect in the statute,         leave an enormous loophole that lets the agency take up          to percent of its procurements off the top and just           send them straight to the FSS doesn't jive, especially         when you remember that at the time that the agency was           missing its goals, those contracting goals counted not        just open market contracts, but FSS orders were being         counted. When the government was doing . against the           percent goal, that was both on the open market and on            the FSS. Congress was worried about that failure across          the board and enacted a mandatory provision.                    CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, counsel.                   Mr. Tripp.              ORAL ARGUMENT OF ZACHARY D. TRIPP                     ON BEHALF OF THE RESPONDENT                 MR. TRIPP: Mr. Chief Justice, and may it         Alderson Reporting Company Official please the Court:               The mandate here applies when the VA awards        wholly new contracts, not when it places orders under         old ones.              JUSTICE GINSBURG: Mr. Tripp, would you       preliminarily explain why the government walked away       from what was a winning position in the Federal circuit?           I mean, it's really odd. I read the Federal circuit            decision, and I expected to open the government brief          and say, yeah, the Federal circuit was right.                    wrong.             You're telling us the Federal circuit was       MR. TRIPP: I guess ­­ about the Federal          circuit's position, we think the Federal circuit's       rationale is right, so far as it goes, but that it's           incomplete. And so the Federal circuit has a complete           answer for why Petitioner's sort of maximalist position        is wrong, which is that if ­­ if this mandate applies in             percent of procurements, then the secretary's       discretion to set goals is pretty much wiped out, and          it's hard to even talk about them as goals at all. But             the fact that there needs to be discretion somewhere in          this scheme doesn't really answer where the discretion        needs to exist.               And the distinction that we're drawing ­­      Alderson Reporting Company Official first, I want to be clear about the distinction that           we're drawing. We're not saying that when you place an           order under a preexisting contract that that's not a          kind of contract; of course it is. We say that outright            in our brief. What we're saying is that when Congress           establishes a procedure that applies when an agency,         quote, awards contracts, that's naturally read to refer        to awarding wholly new contracts, not placing orders        under old ones.               JUSTICE ALITO: Your answer to Justice       Ginsburg is that the Federal circuit was actually right         even though you disagree with its reasoning. And isn't          the real answer to ­­ is the real answer to this           question that the ­­ the VA regulations don't say         anything about goals?               MR. TRIPP: But it's not only that the VA          regulations don't say anything about goals. It's that         the VA's regulations map up perfectly with the argument         that we're ­­ we're ­­ we're pressing here, which is          that this is a mandate that we apply in percent of             procurements when we are awarding a wholly new contract.          We do it every single time under the regulations, but          those regulations never even come up. You never ­­         like, a contracting officer doesn't begin a procurement          by turning to part . of the ­­ of the FAR. There's             Alderson Reporting Company Official like a ,­page document, right?                    They can open up, march their way through,      place an FSS order under part ­­ part . And when you             place an order under a preexisting contract, the FAR is           crystal clear that you do not consider set­aside        requirements.             JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: I don't quite ­­                   MR. TRIPP: And so the argument we're        advancing here is foursquare with the way our        regulations actually work and what our practices have        been on the ground since .                  JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: So why is it that you         call these order ­­ order contracts? I look at ­­                       MR. TRIPP: Pardon?                JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: I look at your history,         and you, yourself, the government itself, calls these        orders order contracts.               MR. TRIPP: An order is a kind of contract,           you know, under the ­­                JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: It's not a kind. It is           a contract.              MR. TRIPP: Yeah. Yeah, it's a contract          under the ­­              JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: So tell me what kind of         contract do you have, absent the order with the FSS          Alderson Reporting Company Official vendor?             MR. TRIPP: Oh, under the FSS, there's        already a government contract between the United States         and the vendor to supply an indefinite quantity of ­­ of           a certain category of products or services. And so          we're placing an order under those preexisting       contracts.             JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: How difficult is it for        you to take the database that you have with respect to           what are veteran­owned businesses. Take that database,        look at it, look at what it is you need, a stapler, and              see if ­­ how many vendors on that list supply staplers,           and then check that against the FSS?                   MR. TRIPP: It ­­ it ­­                  JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: If there's no veteran       that matches the FSS list, then you go to the FSS.                       What's the problem with that ­­                 MR. TRIPP: If I could take a step back and             explain why this is so important to the VA.                     The thing that we're most troubled by is        that Petitioner's position would block us from being        able to place orders under preexisting contracts. The         whole point of the contract ­­                 JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: No. You didn't listen        to me.  Alderson Reporting Company Official             You go to your veteran­owned list; you're       looking for staplers. You find five veteran­owned        businesses on your list that sell staplers, but you want          to ­­ you need an FSS supplier, because you don't want           to negotiate a new contract. You don't want to do all             that hard work. You check whether there are two or more            of those five on the FSS list.                   MR. TRIPP: All right. So you're saying if          we were going to use the Rule of Two to choose among FSS             vendors who are already qualified ­­                             JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Exactly. Exactly.      MR. TRIPP: ­­ the first point about that is          that Petitioner would lose. They are not a qualified           vendor.             JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: I don't care about the         merits of whether it wins or loses. I'm talking about           the legal issue.               What is so difficult about that?                  MR. TRIPP: Yeah. A couple points about          that.             The ­­ that would significantly narrow our       practical concerns. Our practical concerns are mostly        driven by ­­ by ­­ by the interpretation that we would           not be able to place orders under preexisting contracts         at all. We do this , times a year.           Alderson Reporting Company Official JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: I don't ­­ I don't ­­          MR. TRIPP: You know, this is very important                                 to us. And so in our ­­ our first position about that             is that we just don't think that Congress did that.          This statute is materially identical in its wording to         five earlier statutes, none of which have ever been         interpreted that way. When Congress wanted to address         this ­­             JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Except the FBA has       interpreted this contrary to you; so has the GAO.                     MR. TRIPP: The FBA ­­ the FBA took that          position, and the FAR counsel, which represents the        entire procurement policy of a broad, pan­executive        branch procurement agency, rejected it. So it said that          it was going to be unworkable, and that it was unclear           whether it would offer us a ­­                   JUSTICE KAGAN: Mr. Tripp, I guess I'm not          sure I understand. I mean, I understand your policy             concerns and ­­ and the way you think this will damage           procurement practices. But the statute just seems        pretty clear. Once you say that this is a contract,            what you've said in your brief and right now. And once            you say that, it just ­­ the statute says, "A          contracting officer of the department shall award       contracts on the basis of competition restricted to        Alderson Reporting Company Official veterans' small businesses." So that seems to kind of          answer the case, whatever the policy identifications       are.             MR. TRIPP: Well, I ­­ I think the basic            problem with that is if you take that sort of ­­ just            like sort of L understanding of contract and ­­ and          blow it through ­­               JUSTICE KAGAN: Well, it's your own       understanding of contract. You just said this is ­­                     MR. TRIPP: No, no.                 JUSTICE KAGAN: ­­ contract.                 MR. TRIPP: But ­­ but the problem is that          there's many Federal procurement statutes that apply       when the ­­ when the Federal government, quote, "awards         contracts." That's what five prior small business        contracting preference statutes say. They apply when        there are either awards contracts, award contract       opportunities, or reserves contracts. And ­­ and the         two most basic statutes in the area ­­                   JUSTICE KAGAN: But as I understand it, all          of those contracts have a "may" in there.                     MR. TRIPP: No. Two of them ­­                    JUSTICE KAGAN: Or almost all of them do.                     MR. TRIPP: Well, one of them has always had          a "shall." One had "shall for years." But if I             Alderson Reporting Company Official could get to another ­­                JUSTICE KAGAN: Yeah, but ­­ but most of         them have a "may." But here you have ­­ and ­­ and the               "shall"s, the one or two that there are, have really          never been adjudicated by ­­ certainly by this Court.                                 MR. TRIPP: Right.    JUSTICE KAGAN: So the question is, well,        there we are. We are, you know, for the first time            deciding what this language means, and this language        means that you shall award contracts on the basis of          this restricted competition. And you say this is a          contract, so you know, end of case.                   MR. TRIPP: Well, so a couple points.         The ­­ the very basic statutes that govern sealed         bidding and negotiated bidding, the most heavyweight       procedures for awarding a new contract, they both say          that the government shall award a contract under those          procedures. And if you extend those to the FSS, that           would totally break.               The whole point of entering into these kinds        of contracts upfront is that you don't have to do that           again and again. And when a local VA hospital needs to             order like stents or wheelchairs or an ultrasound        machine ­­             JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: But I don't understand        Alderson Reporting Company Official your policy argument. Why is it so tough for you to ­­            to get those things from an FSS ­­ from an FSS vendor if             it's a veteran? I mean ­­                    MR. TRIPP: Well, I mean, we often do.          We're ­­ we're currently ­­                            JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: This year ­­     MR. TRIPP: We're currently exceeding our       goals on ­­ if you look only at our FSS spending at ­­                        JUSTICE KENNEDY: But the question ­­ I        think the question is, it's ­­ it's a matter of just ­­                        MR. TRIPP: Yeah.                JUSTICE KENNEDY: ­­ pushing a second button         on the computer.               MR. TRIPP: No, it's not. It's ­­                    JUSTICE KENNEDY: First of all, I want to          see what ­­ what's the FSS ­­ FSS, and then I want to              see if there are any veterans­owned businesses that        provide that service or that product on the FSS. push           two buttons. That's it.                 MR. TRIPP: Yeah. I think that ­­ the           practical, sort of, front end of how difficult ­­ if we           are ­­ if we're talking about using the Rule of Two to            choose among qualified FSS vendors, how difficult is it         to do that, the upfront cost is not that big. The ­­            the bigger concern, practical concern that we would have         Alderson Reporting Company Official is the litigation risk that that would expose.                    Right now, our choice of whether to do a         set­aside when choosing among FSS vendors, that is        committed to agency discretion by law because when        Congress addressed this point head­on in (r), it said         that agencies may, at their discretion, do this.                      But if suddenly the Rule of Two applies in       every case, then in every case a disappointed bidder can           come in and say, oh, no, you've misapplied the Rule of           Two. You should have thought that they ­­                    CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, in every case        there has to be ­­ we're dealing with small ­­         veteran­owned small businesses. The examples you gave,        stents, wheelchairs, ultrasound machines, are there many       small businesses that provide ultrasound machines?                  MR. TRIPP: I guess I ­­ I don't know about              ultrasound machines, but we've bought things like ­­                   CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: There are expensive,       big things that you expect you have to be a big company             to provide, like an ultrasound machine, or you mentioned         stents.             Now maybe if they're commodities, then to       provide fair price and best value, it also would help to           be a big business as opposed to a small business. Let              me ­­ I ­­ I can't imagine the small business is going              Alderson Reporting Company Official to make a stent that is going to be at the same price              and same quality as some ­­                             company.             MR. TRIPP: No, but we do a lot of ­­           CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: ­­ pharmaceutical      MR. TRIPP: I mean, percent of our FSS           dollars go to small businesses, and a lot of it are for             things like professional staffing, right? So we hire         temporary nurses and psychiatrists, cardiologists,     things like that, through ­­                CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: percent of your        acquisitions?             MR. TRIPP: Of our FSS ­­ when we're         spending on the FSS, ­­                 CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Okay. So I should          discount your parade of horribles argument by        percent. It's really not as horrible as it sounds.                      MR. TRIPP: Our concern isn't placing an        order. We're happy ­­ we're happy. One of our ­­           we're ­­ we're ­­ like this statute has had enormous          effect on our procurement. We're happy to help         veteran­owned small businesses, but it's only one of our         priorities, right? Our number one agency priority is         caring for veterans.               And so our concern is that if you ­­ if you           Alderson Reporting Company Official apply this with this wooden mandate across the board in          every case, that it would seriously impair our ability         to deliver the quality care that we're trying to         deliver.             JUSTICE BREYER: Is this the case? Do I          understand this? Am I ­­ there are three parts to this.             Question one in my mind, is it the case that they lose            because the agency does not have to apply veterans only          where they way exceeded their goal?                  The answer to that in the opinion would say,         we do not reach that question for there are no          regulations that suggest that the agency has tried to         take that approach. Am I right so far?                      MR. TRIPP: That has tried to take the         approach of saying that we drop it if we're way over ­­                       JUSTICE KENNEDY: Correct.                MR. TRIPP: Yeah, right. Okay.                   JUSTICE BREYER: All right. Then we reach         question two, left one open.                 Question is do they have to choose the          Rule of Two in the FSS? And there are two parts to             that. The first part is suppose two veterans qualified          are already on the FSS list. And there we might say,            yes, you do in respect to them. Or we might say, no,             you don't. But if we say yes, you do, at least we             Alderson Reporting Company Official don't, in your opinion, wreck the system. All right.                      Then we get to Step . There is no veteran           on the FSS. Now what do we do? And there your argument              is that, look, everyone on the FSS is a person who has             entered into a contract, which contract says that when          called upon for further supply, they will give it. Am I            right?                         MR. TRIPP: Yes.    JUSTICE BREYER: So, therefore, it is that        contract, not the contract within the contract that        they're talking about. And were we to say the contrary,           we would have to take an architect who has , pages           of things he's going to do, and we change the sentence           on page to read rather than , and we say            that's a new contract, or something like that. I'm           trying to make an argument for you. It's not a contract             within a contract, it is contract to which this refer.           Am I way off base or is that what you're trying to say?                          MR. TRIPP: I think that's ­­                   JUSTICE BREYER: And don't just say it is         because you think I'd agree with it, please.                    (Laughter.)             MR. TRIPP: I ­­ I don't think that's           exactly what we're trying to say. And ­­ and it's a            little hard to know ­­    Alderson Reporting Company Official             JUSTICE BREYER: All right. Well, if it         isn't that, look, these people on the FSS list have          already entered into a contract, this is just         implementing the contract that they've already entered       into. If you're not saying that, then how in heaven's           name do you get out of his argument?                    MR. TRIPP: We're saying that when we place         an order under a preexisting contract, that that is not           awarding a new ­­ awarding a contract within the meaning            of these procurement statutes.                There have been ­­ I ­­ I really do want to             emphasize the historical context that's built up over        decades about the understanding of this phrase,       "throughout Federal procurement law," right? There's       five prior statutes on exactly this same subject, and         every one of them has been interpreted by the FAR to be            categorically inapplicable when placing orders under      preexisting contracts.              And the ­­ one of the things that's very         troubling about their position is that if you say, well,          we want to read a lot into this special provision,           (d), it was intended to help veterans, but there's         nothing special about the language. It's almost        identical to the language of the HUBZone preference that         was in place from to that had ­­ that had ­­            Alderson Reporting Company Official sorry, to that had exactly the same shall          award a contract opportunity. I mean, it was very            powerful. And that the whole ­­ the whole time since           , Congress has had a provision in place saying that           each contract in a small dollar range shall be reserved           exclusively for ­­ for small businesses.                              And if you ­­   JUSTICE GINSBURG: Mr. Tripp, this is an ­­        an overarching problem. The ­­ the argument which you          state very well is very complex. The Federal circuit          had a really simple take on it, and all of these            regulations and provisions that you are mentioning       didn't figure at all in ­­ in the Federal circuit's          opinion. So you're putting us in the position of being           a court of first view in a rather dense area. This ­­             this Court usually doesn't do that. It likes to know           what ­­                         MR. TRIPP: Right.    JUSTICE GINSBURG: ­­ other judges have       thought about it.               MR. TRIPP: Yes, I ­­ and I ­­ I totally              understand that concern. And, you know, obviously, our         first­line position is that we're right for the reasons         that we say in our brief. This traces through all of            the Federal procurement statutes. It wouldn't upset        Alderson Reporting Company Official the ­­ the way things work in this area of the law, and             we think we're also entitled to Chevron deference. And          for that reason, we think you could affirm.                    But we also said in your mootness briefing        that we think it would be fair to send this back to the             lower courts to consider these arguments in the first         instance ­­                                     CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Consider ­­     MR. TRIPP: ­­ we ­­ we recognize that.         CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Consider the      argument, or consider mootness?                            MR. TRIPP: Consider both. But ­­       JUSTICE KENNEDY: What ­­ what factors does        the secretary look to when the secretary sets goals?         Because I'm going back to the argument about for         purposes of meeting the goals.                             MR. TRIPP: I mean, the ­­       JUSTICE KENNEDY: What ­­ what ­­ what        standards does the Congress impose on the secretary when         the secretary sets the goals?                 MR. TRIPP: It ­­ it ­­ the goals are          committed to his discretion, except for that the goal ­­         the minimum goal needs to be at least percent. The             goals since the statute has gone into effect have been          in the range of percent and percent. And I want              Alderson Reporting Company Official to emphasize the ­­                                       JUSTICE KENNEDY: What does he ­­      MR. TRIPP: ­­ the night­and­day impact.       JUSTICE KENNEDY: What does he consider in        deciding whether to go , , ? The risk of           litigation? The higher the goal is? Or ­­                     MR. TRIPP: No, I ­­ no, I think ­­ I guess,               I ­­ I would ­­ I would have to ­­ to speculate on that,                but I think it's more the sort of practical reality of            what seems like a ­­ a goal, something that we            could push forward that's attainable, but ­­ but not         unrealistic. And ­­ and I ­­                   JUSTICE KENNEDY: Well, if the discretion is        that broad, then it seems to me that maybe the Federal           circuit was wrong, that these goals are simply        aspirational. But that doesn't have any real effect on          the operation of the statute.                 MR. TRIPP: Well, they have a huge impact on           the way that we actually procure, right?                   This has had ­­ I mean, the statute ­­         before the statute was enacted, we were falling short of          even the percent goal. Now the goals are in the range              of to ­­ to percent, and in most years we're              crushing these goals, right? We're beating them, even         on the FSS, where we're ­­ we're not applying the Rule           Alderson Reporting Company Official of Two.              But we're doing two other very important       things for veterans. We put a thumb on the scale when             we're considering offers that were submitted within the        FSS by veterans. And we also do set­asides under          (r), the statute where Congress spoke very directly        to this and said that we may, at our discretion, set           aside orders placed against multiple­award schedule      contracts. We do those set­asides, and the ­­ and the           results have been very dramatic.                 CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: When ­­ I'm sorry.        When you say you're crushing the goals, that means         you're meeting them?               (Laughter.)                         MR. TRIPP: We're ­­ sorry. Sorry.        We're ­­ we're far exceeding them. In ­­ in          many years we're ­­ we're nearly doubling them. And I           think this is something that we ­­ we have ­­ this has            had a huge impact on ­­ on our operations. I think we               think it's had a big impact on the veterans' community.                       But the ­­ the ­­ our concern is that if you           take this sort of mechanical Rule of Two and apply it,           especially in the ­­ sort of the blocking interpretation         that Petitioner has been ­­ been pressing, that we would          not be able to place an order at all.         Alderson Reporting Company Official JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Could you please ­­      JUSTICE ALITO: Could you explain ­­      JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: ­­ explain to me ­­       JUSTICE ALITO: Could you ­­ could you                                                        explain why the FS ­­ use of the FSS was important with            respect to this particular contract? You provide        examples of the VA's ordering standard commodities like        a stent, or pencils, or something like that. But this           was ­­ my understanding ­­ maybe this is not right ­­          this was a custom service that you were seeking, and ­­                                   MR. TRIPP: Yes.    JUSTICE ALITO: ­­ what you did was to         solicit a quote from a single contractor.                     So how does that fit in with the arguments         you're making about the need to use the FSS?                     MR. TRIPP: It ­­ it sort of ­­ two things           about this. The ­­ the ­­ this is a somewhat unusual             bid because ­­ there ­­ there is not explanation in the           record because ­­ because this case was just litigated         on the agreed facts about the procedure.                   The much more common ­­ the ­­ the VA orders          a lot of services on the FSS. It's like one of the             major ways that people ­­ that agencies purchase        services. And the ­­ the standard way of doing it,           it's ­­ it's ­­ you know, it's not like Amazon.com, but           Alderson Reporting Company Official you can go on to a website, drill down, see all the             vendors who ­­ who are already prequalified to provide         that kind of service. And the standard way that you           would do this is that you would request ­­ request          quotes from at least three of them, and then consider          them when they come in.                 And when you request ­­ request the quote        from them, even if you request it from three or four of            them, every vendor on the schedule who is preapproved         will ­­ will see that it's open and can submit an offer,            and then ­­ and then the ­­ the agency would consider           all the offers that were given to it, and it picks the            one that offers the best value.                  So that's how it would work if we were doing          something like hiring a temporary psychiatrist at a ­­          at a new ­­ at a new ­­ expanding a medical center in                Des Moines or something.                JUSTICE KAGAN: One of the amicus briefs        suggests that the VA is now doing increasingly complex         procurements by way of the FSS. That we have it in our             heads that this is all about, you know, staples and          paperclips, but that, in fact, the FSS is being used to           do things that would previously have been done on the          open market.              MR. TRIPP: I ­­ I ­­ I ­­ well, first, I               Alderson Reporting Company Official want to emphasize that the VA's primary use of this,          again ­­ this is not ­­ I'm not talking about staples           and paperclips. We're talking about, you know, the ­­         the medical­related stuff, the, you know, wheelchairs,       stents, all that ­­ temporary staffing services.                   But yes, a lot of the FSS ­­ even for more            complex procurement, the FSS is still substantially       easier. And the FSS, you tend to already be sort of            aggregating the government's buying power. And so the         pricing is ­­ the idea of the ­­ of the FSS is that it's              both easier to do and that the price will ordinarily be           lower.             And so ­­ I mean, the ­­ the agency wouldn't           be going into the FSS if the agency didn't think that           that was the ­­ the best approach. And in fact,           whenever the procurement is over half a million dollars,          I believe, the FAR requires the contracting officer to         make an affirmative, express determination on exactly       that point: That ­­ that going through the FSS is going            to provide the best value for us overall.                    And I ­­ and just to respond to Petitioner's          effort to put a lot of weight onto the best­value           language in the ­­ in the Rule of Two, I'm a little             confused by that because ­­ exactly because when ­­        whenever the agency is placing an order under the FSS,          Alderson Reporting Company Official under the FAR, that ­­ that the ­­ the contracting          officer is making a determination that that order is the           best value. So I ­­ I guess I just ­­ I ­­ I feel like                     that ­­ that may just collapse on its own weight. I            don't ­­ I don't quite understand where that argument          goes.             JUSTICE KAGAN: Mr. Tripp, can ­­ can I ask,           what effect would this statute really have on your view?          As I understand it, the government does have to use the            Rule of Two on all open­market purchases; is that right?                      MR. TRIPP: Under the statute, our       regulations implemented it, yes.                JUSTICE KAGAN: Above, like, a very low         threshold? Is it ,, something like that?                                MR. TRIPP: Yes. Right, right.       JUSTICE KAGAN: So ­­ so if you're right,         what did this statute actually accomplish? In other         words, you already have to use the Rule of Two for           open­market purchases, or almost all of them.                                           MR. TRIPP: Oh, right.     JUSTICE KAGAN: What does the statute do?        MR. TRIPP: Yes. It ­­ so (d) has a ­­            has a huge effect, because under the ­­ just the ­­ sort             of the regular FAR, you just have to do a set­aside for             small businesses, right? That's ­­ that's sort of norm          Alderson Reporting Company Official under the ­­ under the Rule of Two.                    But under (d), this required to ­­ to        restrict competition only to veteran­owned small      businesses who are in our database. So this is a far             more ­­                         JUSTICE KENNEDY: Who ­­    MR. TRIPP: Only in our ­­ who are verified          as veteran­owned in our database.                 So this is a far more powerful preference         than the ­­ than ­­ than the ordinary preference in ­­          in the FAR, or even when you take that and you couple it             with section , which they mention in the brief,         which gets at, again, just sort of putting a ­­ a bit of               a thumb on the scale. Restricting competition is a very            powerful thing, and it has a huge effect.                     So again, I think, I just want to emphasize           at ­­ at closing that our ­­ our major concern is with            Petitioner's sort of blocking interpretation that would       prevent us from ­­ from placing orders at all, even when           we have them in place, and even when we could place           orders with another veteran­owned small business.                  JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: And you still haven't       answered my question fully.                If we limit that to preexisting orders where        there is two or more veterans ­­      Alderson Reporting Company Official MR. TRIPP: Yes. And I ­­ and ­­ and ­­            JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: ­­ on the same practical                                consequences.             MR. TRIPP: The ­­ the practical       consequences are much narrower. I have ­­ but I have a              lot of trouble seeing how you limit that to this statute           when the language of this statute is materially        identical to ­­              JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Like we limit everything       else. Once we say what we think, Congress then decides           what it's going to do in the future.                    MR. TRIPP: Are ­­ are they ­­                   JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Right now, there are no        statutes like that.               MR. TRIPP: No, no, no. There is ­­ there           is five others on ­­ on the exact subject of          small­business contracting preferences, and especially     (j), which applies across the government and says        that each contract ­­               JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: The Small Business      Administration has read it the way Kingdomware ­­                   MR. TRIPP: No, that ­­ but that was         decisively rejected by the FAR counsel, the       government­wide body that considered this. They said it         was unworkable, and it was unclear that it was going to           Alderson Reporting Company Official have a significant upside. Congress responded to the          FAR council by enacting (r) and establishing a        procedure to do that, but making it discretionary in all          cases.             And if you extend the Rule of Two mandate         there, first of all, it would expose us to lots of           litigation. But I ­­ I ­­ again, I don't see how you                restrict that to this statute and not all the other          ones.             JUSTICE KENNEDY: Do ­­ do you know what         proportion of the VA's annual purchases are under the         FSS?                         or ­­                                                 MR. TRIPP: By dollar?     JUSTICE KENNEDY: Yes. Is it percent,          MR. TRIPP: I think it's about percent.          JUSTICE KENNEDY: ?    MR. TRIPP: About percent, yes.       JUSTICE GINSBURG: What was the percent?        There was a percent figure.                   MR. TRIPP: The ­­ the percent is by          transaction volume. You know, a lot of the FSS orders            tend to be relatively small dollar order. So there's a           lot more of them, but they don't add up to as many            dollars. Alderson Reporting Company Official JUSTICE KENNEDY: I see.      JUSTICE KAGAN: What are the kinds of things                                 that aren't done under the FSS? Like, what's the          remaining ?              MR. TRIPP: Well, you know, a big part of           that are orders that we do under other contracts. So ­­           so, right, we spend $ billion a year ordering          pharmaceuticals under a preexisting contract. And ­­ I          mean, if we couldn't do that, that would be really,          really devastating to our just basic operations.                   CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, how ­­ do you         know how many veteran­owned businesses would be able to         offer the best value on pharmaceuticals to the VA?                     MR. TRIPP: No. What I'm ­­ what I'm ­­          if ­­ I think actually if the question is just, you            know, to ­­ if ­­ if a small business needed to deliver             some penicillin to a ­­ a local hospital for an            individual order by a local hospital, I don't know,           maybe a veteran­owned small business could do that.                     What we've done is to ­­ is ­­ as ­­         actually, as Congress directed us in Section , they         required us to buy these things on national contracts or          on the FSS, and so that's what we've done. And so we             strategically source all of our pharmaceutical      purchases, or almost all of them, through this one         Alderson Reporting Company Official contract where we can get them in a matter of minutes.            We can place the order and we can get it delivered the            next day.                                                  If there's no further questions.     CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, counsel.       Mr. Saunders, four minutes.    MR. SAUNDERS: Thank you.              REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF THOMAS G. SAUNDERS                     ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONER                             MR. SAUNDERS: Thank you.     This case should begin and end for this        Court with the concession that in the ordinary sense of          the term, an order under the FSS is a contract.           Congress chose sweeping language here in acting its        mandate, and that language encompasses FSS orders. And         to the extent there are, you know, changes that would          need to be made or other policy considerations, those         can be made by Congress in the future. But the policy            consideration it made is ­­ is embodied in the statutory          language it chose.               Now, the idea that we're going to come back         and limit this based on a specialized meaning of the           word "contract," we should remember that that argument        is not one that appeared in this case until the          government's merits brief in this Court.      Alderson Reporting Company Official             If it's a settled background interpretation       that ­­ that Congress was incorporating that limitation        into the Act, you think it would have occurred to them           in the last decade, the carve­outs for the Small         Business Act exceptions were never justified based on        providing a narrower meaning of the word "contract," and          on their face were expressly limited to the Small         Business Act, the provision that applied to part of          the FAR implementing the Small Business Act.                   Well, to the extent there's an exception for        the Small Business Act, well, Congress came in here is          it rejected the Small Business Act approach. Rather         than continuing to tinker within the framework of the         Small Business Act where this exception applied, it said         we're taking this mandate out of the Small Business Act,          we're going to narrow it, it's not going to be a           government­wide mandate, but we're going to apply it        specifically to the VA in light of its unique         obligations and set the VA up as the driver of          procurement in this area; have it set the example for          the rest of the government.                 Congress was making ­­ balancing these      policy considerations. It wasn't going to be blundering         into something that was administratively unworkable.      And if you ­­ the dire consequences that we're hearing          Alderson Reporting Company Official today really stood any chance of coming to pass, I don't            think that you would have the American Legion, the Iraq          and Afghanistan veterans, members of Congress, who        care deeply about veterans issues, supporting      Kingdomware's position in this case.                  The reality is if the government's only      doing percent of its procurements from FSS, you're         already talking about a broad mandate. And then with           respect to those existing ones, you have to have a          business that is eligible, it has to appear in the          database, and it has to be able to offer a fair and             reasonable price and best value.                 And as the ­­ the Chief Justice discussed        for some of these big order commodity contracts, that         it's going to be a difficult fight for the ­­ for the             drugs that are being offered here, there's a statutory          provision that says that the government acquires its        drugs at percent of the average price that         wholesalers pay to the manufacturers. So take the         average price that anyone else in the world can get from           the manufacturer and do a big discount on top of that.            Those are tough terms to beat.                  And so I think that there's going to be ­­          you know, the reality here is not the dire consequences          that you're seeing, and the policy judgment is for         Alderson Reporting Company Official Congress. And believe me, if anything in this mandate          enforced as written is going to hurt veterans in any          way, then you can expect Congress will act swiftly to          correct that problem.               But none of this supports the sweeping       carve­out that the government is saying that it doesn't         even have to look at its own database. It doesn't have            to consider a single veteran­owned small business, no         matter how competitive it would be, because it can go          straight to the Federal suppliers.                 JUSTICE KENNEDY: What response do you have        to judge ­­ Justice Ginsburg's question that really        you're making us a court of first impression here?          Shouldn't we send this back?                 MR. SAUNDERS: I don't think we should         because the meaning of "contract," this is a straight­up          question of law. And the reality is that the veterans           who are waiting for this law to be enforced as written           have already waited a decade. And for ­­ to send it             back and have additional delay on a pure question of law            based on a new argument that the government's making for           the first time here sets a very bad precedent.                      CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, counsel.                   The case is submitted.                (Whereupon, at : a.m., the case in the        Alderson Reporting Company Official above­entitled matter was submitted.)     Alderson Reporting Company Official Officialagencies : applying : : : : : agency : : approach :, :, : : : : : : : : : : : approaches :, bad : :, badly : balancing : base : : arbitrary : architect : area : : background : Page  : B back : : :, : :, blow : blundering : board : : body : bought : : branch : break : Breyer : : :, :, :, :, : : : : :, :, : : : : brief : : : A a.m : : : ability : AbilityOne : able : : : : : : above­entitled : agency's : : : : aggregating : agree : absent : agreed : absolute : absolutely : : ahead : aimed :, ALITO :, : : :,, all­inclusive : allow : : allowed : amass : Amazon.com : abuse : accept : accomplish : acquires : acquisition : : : : : argument : : : : : based : : : : : :, :, : basic :, : :, :, : : : basis : :, : : : :, : : beat : :, : :, : arguments : beating : behalf :, : :, : : : : : benefit : believe : : Armed : aside : asking : aspirational : best :, : :,, : : : : : : : : authority : available : : : average :, award : : best­value : : better : : beyond : bid : :, : bidder : awarded : : : : : bidding :, : : big :, : :,, : : :, awarding : : bigger :, :,, : : : : awards : : : :, awful : : billion : bit : blind : block : blocking : : : : : briefing : briefs : : broad :, : : : buildings : built : business : : : : :, :, : : : :, :, :, : :,, : : : : :,,, :,, : : businesses : : :, : : :, :, : : :, :, : : : : :, :, : : : : button : buttons : buy :,,,,, :,, : : amicus : acquisitions : American : act : : : : :, : : :, amount :, :,,,, : : acting : actively : add : : additional : announcement : Assistant : annual : assured : attainable : answer : : attempt : attempts : : :, : : : : :,, authorities : : : : address : : : : addressed : adjudicated : Administration : : administrative : administratively : advancing : Affairs : affirm : affirmative : Afghanistan : answered : answering : APA : apparent : appear : APPEARANCES : appeared : applied :, applies : : : :, : : : apply : : : :, :, : : Alderson Reporting Company Alderson Reporting Company Official : : choice : choose : : : : : competitive : complete : complex : constrained : consult : : consulting : contact : : contained : contains : context : continues : : comply : continuing : computer :, contract : : : choosing : chose :, circuit :,,, complicated : complexity : complicate : : : : : circuit's :, : : : circumstances : concede : buying : C C : : call : called : : calling : calls : cap :, capable : : : capricious : cardiologists : care : : : : cited : : Classification : clear : : : : clicking : client : :, closing : codes :, collapse : colleagues : combination : come : : : : : careers : caring : carve­out : carve­outs : case : : :, :,, : : : : : :,, :,, : :, : :, cases : comes : categorically : coming : category : ceilings : center : certain : : commodities : committed : : : : : certainly : : chance : : change : changes : check : : : Chevron : Chief :, : : :, :, :, :, :, : :, : : : commodity : common : community : : company : : compare :, compared : compete : competing : : competition : : : : : concern :, :, : : : concerns :, : concession : : conduct : conflicts : confused : Congress : : : : : : :, :,, : : : : : : :, : : : : : : : :, :,, : :, consequences : : : : consider : : : : :, :,, : :, : consideration : considerations : : considered : considering : consistent : Page  costs :,, council : counsel : : : : : : counted :, couple : : : course : : : court :, : : : : :, :, : court's : : courts : create : creates : crushing : : crystal : currently : : : custom : : customized : : : :, : : : :, :, :,, : : : : :,,, :,, : :,,,, :,, : :,, :, : : : :,, : : contracting : : :, : : : cuts : : : : : D contractor : contracts :, D : : : : : :, : D.C :,, damage : :, : :,,,,, database : : :,,,, : : : :,,,,,, : :, : : :, : : :, :, : : : : : :, :,, : :, : : : : : :, : contrary : databases : day : : deal : dealing : : decade : : : decades : : correct : : : : correspond : cost : : Alderson Reporting Company Official doctrine : decided : decides : document : deciding : : doing : : decision : : decisively : declaration : declaratory :, dollar : : : : : : : : :, : enacting : encompasses : encouraging : enforced :, enlist : enormous : : :, deeply : : deference : delay : deliver :, : :, dollar­valued : dollars : : : ensures : entered : :, entering : entire : entirely : entitled : : erred : : delivered : dense : department : : : : doubling : dramatic : drawing : : especially : drill : driven : driver : Des : drop : describing : designed : drugs :, determination : duration : : : : ESQ :, :, expect : : : expected : expecting : expensive : experience :, expert : explain :, :,, : : :,, explanation : explicit : expose : : express : expressly : extend : : extent : : : F face : : : Page  February : Federal : :, : : : :,,,, : : : : : : :, : : feel : fight : figure : : figures : find : : findings : finds : fine : fingertips : fire : firing : first :, :, : : : : : : : : : : : : :, first­line : fit : five :, : : : : : : E determine : E : :, devastating : difficult : : earlier : : :, : easier :, easy : effect : : : : : :, : dire : : direct : directed : effective : directly : disabled : : effectively : disagree : disappointed : discount : effort : : either : eligibility : eligible : : : discretion : : : : :, :, : : : discretionary : : : discussed : : distinction : : : : : : : elucidation : embodied : emphasize : : : : empirical :, : enacted : : : essentially : established : establishes : establishing : evading : evaluate : evasive : evidence : exact : exactly : : facing : fact : : : : factors : facts : failed : : : : failing : : :, example : examples : failure : fair :, : :,, : : : : Forces : flexibility : focused : following : : form :,,, formation : formed : forward :, fall : falling : fantastic : far : : : : : : : : : four : : : :, :,, : : : fares : favor : : FBA :,, feasibility : : : : frankly : : front : : FS : foursquare : framework : : : exceed : exceeded : exceeding : : exception :, : :, exceptions : exclusively : excuse : exist : : existing : : expanding : expansive : Alderson Reporting Company Official hurt : I idea : : : : : identical : : : : identifications : identify : imagine : impact :, :, impair : implemented : implementing : : imply : important : : : : : importantly : impose : impression : inapplicable : incomplete : incorporating : increase : increasingly : incredible : incredibly : indefinite : indicating : individual : : Industries : Industry : inevitably : information : : : : : instance : intended : : interactive : interpretation : : : : Page  : : interpreted :, : involved : Iraq : issue : : issues : J jive : job : judge : judges : judgment :, :, : judgments :, Justice : :, :,,, : :, :, : : :, : :,, : : : : :,, : : :, :, : : :, :, :, :, :,,, :,,,,, :, :,, : :, : :, :,,,, :,, : : :,, :,,, :,, :, :, :, :,, : :, :, : :, : :,, : :, : :,,,, : :,, : :, guessing : goes : : goals :,,, : : : :, :, : greatly : ground : : GSA : guess :, : : : : : :,,,,, :,,,, :, :, :, :, H :, : :,,,, half : :,, : happen : FSS : : : : :, :, :,, : :,,,, : : : :,, : : : : :, :, :,,, :,, : :,,,,, : : : :, :, :, : : going : :, : :,, :, :, : : : :,, :, :,, : : : head­on : :,,, heads : :, :, :, : hear : :,, : :, : : : : hearing : : : : : heartland :, : : : heaven's : :,, : heavyweight : : : : help : : :,, : : : happening : happens : happy :,, hard : : fully : further : : future : : G : :, :, : : : : : G GAO : : gathering : general : : getting : : Ginsburg : : :, : : : :, : Ginsburg's : give : : given : : : :,, : go :, : : : : : : : : : : : goal : :, :, :, high : : good : : : higher :, :, : : hire : hiring : historical : history : : goods : govern : government : : : : :,, :, : : : holds : :, : : horrible : : : : horribles : : : : hospital : : :, : government's : House : household : : : : : : : HUBZone : huge : : : : government­wide : : : : : hundred :, : : grant : hundreds : Alderson Reporting Company :,,, :,,, :,, : : :,, lack : language :, :, : : :,, large : larger : Laughter : : law : : : : : : : : : :,, lead : : learned : leave : leeway : left : leg : legal :, : Let's : light : likes : limit : : :, : limitation : : limited : : : : justified : K Kagan : :, :, : : :,, : :, : :,, : : Kagan's : KENNEDY : kind : : :,, : : kinds : : : Kingdomware : : : :, : Kingdomware's : know : :, :, : : : : :, :, :, : : :, : : : : : : :, :, :,,, : : knows : L : :, :,, : :, : :, :, : : : Legion : :, : : : legislative : :, : :,, :, maximalist : : : : maximum : : : : mean : : : Official local : : : locate : logic : long : look :,, :, :, : : : : : looking :, : : looks : loophole : lose : : loses : lot : : lots : : low : : : lower : : : : lower­level : M machine : : mandatory : :,, : :, manufacturer : manufacturers : Page  million : : millions :, mind : minimum : minutes :, misapplied : mismatch : missing :, map : march : market : : modest : : :, : Moines : Monday : mootness : : matches : materially : : : matter : : morning : : : : move : : multiple­award : N :, :, N :, : : : : name : : : :, narrow : : : : : : : narrower : : : meaning : : national : : : : natural :, means : : :, : mechanical : : naturally : nearly : : : : need :,, : : : : : needed : : machines :, medical : limits : line : list :, :, making : : meet : major : : : medical­related : : : : listed :, : : :, : listen : literally : litigated : litigating : litigation : : : : meeting :, : :, mandate :, :, : : needs : : :, : : : :, :, members : : : : : mention : :, : : : : :, : : negotiate : negotiated : never : : :, : : mentioning : merits : : mentioned : :, : :,, : mandated : : : : little : : mandates : : : met : micro : new : : : : : : : : : Alderson Reporting Company : : operations : : Official Page  : placed : particular : : places : prescreen : pressing : opinion : : :, : : placing : : : : parts :, opportunities : pass : : : : pretty : : : : : : : : : : : opportunity :, : : : passage : pay : pencils : plain : : plays : please : : : : prevail : : : prevent : previously : point : : : price : : : : : : opposed : : penicillin : oral : :, : : order : :,, people : :, : : : : : : :,,, percent : : points : : :,, : : : : : : : : : : : : policy : : : : : :, : : : :, : :,,,,, : :,, : :,, :, : : :,, :,, : : :,, :,, : : ordering : : orders : : : : : : : : : : : :,, : perfectly : : : perform : : position : : :,, : :, : :, : : :,,, : : : : :,, prices : : pricing : primary : prior : : : priorities : priority : Prison : probably : night­and­day : norm : normally : North : number :, : numbers : numerous : nurses : O O : : obligation : : : obligations : obviously : occurred : : odd : : offer : : : : : offered : offering : offers : : : : : oh : : : : : : Okay : : : : old : : : once :,, : : : ones :,, : : : : officer : : ordinarily : : performing : period : person : : ordinary : : : outright : outside : : persons : overall : overarching : Petitioner :, :, : : : : P P : page : : pages : pan­executive open : : :, : : : : paper : : paperclips : : : open­market : : : operate : operates : operation : parade : Pardon : part : : :, : : : power : powerful : : problem : : :, : : practical : : : :, :, : :, procedure : : : : : : practices : procedures : : preapproved : precedence : precedent : : : : preexisting : Petitioner's : pharmaceutical : : pharmaceuticals :, phrase : picks : place :, : : :, : :, : : preference : : : : : : :, preferences : : :, : : :, : : : preparation : : : prequalified : : : : : :, :, process : :, : : : : procure : procurement : : : : :, : : :, : :, : :, : : : : preliminarily : procurements : Alderson Reporting Company recognized : record : : respect : : : : : : Official : : : reason : reasonable :, : :,, :, : reasonably : reasoning : reasons : : : qualified : :, : : qualify : quality :, : : quantity : question : : REBUTTAL : : : : : :, : : recognize : :, :, :, : : :,, recurred :, questions : : reductions : refer : : quite : : referring : reflects : registered : quotations : quote : : : : R R : raised : ramp : : : rampant : ramping : range : : : rate : rationale : reach :, read :,, : : : : : : : real : : :, : reality : :, : regular : Regulation : regulations : :,,, : : : : rejected : : : relatively : relevant : relief :, :, remaining : remember :, : repetition : : reply : report : represent : represents : request : : :,,, Page  : : requirements :, : : : :, :,, : : : : : : requires : : rule : : :, : : research : : reserved : reserves : resist : resisted : resisting : respond : responded : Respondent : : : response : rest : restraint : restrict : : restricted : : : Restricting : results : retrospect : review : : : : :,,, : : :, : : : : :, : : S S : : satisfied : Saunders : : : :,, :, : :,,, :, :, : :, :,, :, : :, :, : :, : :, :, :, : :,, :,,, : :, :, :,, : : saying : : : : : :,,, :, : :, : : :, : : reviews : right : :, :, : : : : : : :, :,, : : :, :, :, : :,, :,, : scale : : schedule : : : : : : : : : says : : SBA : provided : providing : : : provision : : quotes : : produce : product : products : professional : Program : programmer : programming : progress : proportion : protection : protest : protests : proved : provide : : :,, : : : : :, : : : : : : provisions : psychiatrist : psychiatrists : purchase :, : purchases : :, : : pure : purpose : purposes : : : push : : pushing : put : : : : puts : putting : : : Q qualifications : : really : : require : rights :, risk : : : : :, required : : ROBERTS : : : : : : : : : requirement : : : : : :, : : : : scheme : sealed : second : secretary :, Alderson Reporting Company :, secretary's : section : : side : significant : : : significantly : simple : : simpler : see : : : : : : : : : simplified : :, :, : : : simply : : : : single : : Official SOTOMAYOR :, :, : : :, : : : : :,, :, :, : :, :, : : :, : : :,, Sotomayor's : sounds : : source : sources : special : : : specialized : specific : specifically : seeing : : seek : seeking : : self­certification : sell : semantic : send : : :, sense : : : : : sentence : separate : seriously : service : : : : service­disabled : : : services : :, : :, : set : :, : : : :, set­aside : : : : set­asides :, :, sets :, : setting : : settled : severely : shall"s : sheet : short : : shows : shut : : : situation : situation's : situations : six­tenths : skipped : slower : small : : : : speculate : spend : spending : :, : :, :, : :, :, : : : : : :,, :, :, :, : : : : : squishiness : :, :,, SS : :,,, : spent : spoke : staffing : : standard : : : small­business : : : standards : stapler : staplers : : : : smallest : sole­source : solely : solicit : Solicitor : someone's : somewhat : sorry : :, statement : staples : : state : stated : : : sort : :, : :, : : : : : : :, :, States :,, : : :, : statute : : :, : :, : :,, : Page  : statutes : : : :,, suppose : : : :,, : :, : Supreme :, sure : : surprises : surprising : :, : :, : : : : sweeping : statutory : : : : : stent : : stents : : swiftly : system :, : : : step : : stipulated : stood : stopped : straight : : : : : : straight­up : strange : strategically : streamlined : : : stretch : strikes : stuff : :, : : : substantially : suddenly : suggest : suggests : supplied : supplier : : suppliers : : : supplies : supply : :, : :, : : : supporting : supports : : : T T :, take : : : :,, : :, : : : : : taken : : takes : talk : : talking :, : :, :, : : : :, : targeted : technology : tell : : : : : : telling : : temporary : : : tend : : tendency : term : : terms : : :, : : :,, : : : : : : : Thank : :, subject : : Technologies : submit : submitted : : Alderson Reporting Company Official : : : :, :, : U ultrasound : :,,, unclear : : : : thin : thing : : : : things : :, : : : :, :, : : : : : : :, think :,, totally : : tough : : : towels : traces : track : transaction : treatise : tremendous : tried :, Tripp : : : : : :,, : : : :, :, : :, : :, :, : :,, :, :, : : : : : : : :, : thinking : THOMAS : : : : : thought : : : : thousands : three : :, threshold : thumb : : tied : : tier : time : : : :, : :, : : : : times : :, : tinker : today : tons : tools : top : : totality : : unemployment understand : : : : : :, : : : : :, understanding :,, : : : : :,, : :, :, : :,, :,,,, :, :,, :, : :,,, :, :, United :,, : : :, : : : : :, :, :, :, : : : unrealistic : : : : unusual : :,,, : :,,, : :,, : :, universe : unlawful : unworkable : unique : : upfront : : trouble : troubled : troubling : true : truly : trying : : :, : upset : upside : urgency : urgent :,, use : : : : : : : usually : Tucker : : turning : two : : :, : : :,, :, : : v : : : :, : :, :, :, :, :, V VA :,, : : :,, : : :, : : : :, : : vast : : : : veteran's :, : veteran­owned Page  veterans' : :,,, : :, : : : veterans­owned : : : : : : view : : : : VA's : : : : : : : : : violation : volume : VA­specific :, value :, :, W : :, : waited : : : : waiting : : : : walked : values : various : vendor : : :, : : : vendors : want : : :, : : :,, :, :, : : : wanted : : : : : : : : wanting : : : Washington :, verified : veteran :, : wasn't : : : : : water : : : : way : : : : : :, : :, :, : : : : :, : : : : :,, :, : :, : :,,, : :, : : : :, :, : veterans :,, : : : :,,,, :,,,, : :, : :,, : :, : :, : : : :, ways : : We'll : we're : : :, : : : : : : :,,,,, : :, : :,, : :,,,, : :, : : : : :,, : :,, :,,, : : : Alderson Reporting Company :,, we've : : : : : : website : weight : : : went :, wheelchairs : : : wholesalers : wholly : :, win :, winning : : wins : wiped : wondered : wooden : word : : worded : wording : words : : work : :, :, : : : : : working : works : : world : worried : wouldn't :, :, : : : wreck : writings : written :, wrong :,, :, : x :, X Y yeah : : :, : : :, : year : : : years : : : : Z ZACHARY : : : : : : : :, : : : : : : : : :, : : : :, ­ : : : :, : : , : : : : : : : L : : :,, : : : : : : : : : : : , : Official Page  : : : :, : : : : : ­percent :, : : : : : , : : , : : : : , : : : : : ,­page : : : : : :, : (j) : (r) : : : : : , : : : : : : : (d) : : : : (e) : : : . : , : Alderson Reporting Company 