Official        IN THE SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES        ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ x                                  HALO ELECTRONICS, INC.,              :             Petitioner                : No. ­         v.                          PULSE ELECTRONICS, INC.,             ET AL.,                             : : : ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ x                                  and ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ x                                  STRYKER CORPORATION, ET AL.,          :             Petitioners               : No. ­         v.                          ZIMMER, INC., ET AL.,                 : : ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ x                                                         Washington, D.C.                         Tuesday, February ,                  The above­entitled matter came on for oral       argument before the Supreme Court of the United States         at : a.m.   APPEARANCES: JEFFREY B. WALL, ESQ., Washington, D.C.; on behalf of            Petitioners. Alderson Reporting Company Official ROMAN MARTINEZ, ESQ., Assistant to the Solicitor             General, Department of Justice, Washington, D.C.; for       United States, as amicus curiae, supporting         Petitioners. CARTER G. PHILLIPS, ESQ., Washington, D.C.; on behalf of            Respondents. Alderson Reporting Company Official                                    C O N T E N T S ORAL ARGUMENT OF                                     JEFFREY B. WALL, ESQ.     PAGE    On behalf of the Petitioners                           ORAL ARGUMENT OF   ROMAN MARTINEZ, ESQ.         For United States, as amicus curiae,      supporting the Petitioners                           ORAL ARGUMENT OF   CARTER G. PHILLIPS, ESQ.       On behalf of the Respondents                           REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF   JEFFREY B. WALL, ESQ.       On behalf of the Petitioners                           Alderson Reporting Company Official                                       P R O C E E D I N G S                                            (: a.m.)              CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: We'll hear argument       next in Case ­, Halo Electronics v. Pulse        Electronics and the consolidated case, ­, Stryker       Corporation v. Zimmer.               Mr. Wall.              ORAL ARGUMENT OF JEFFREY B. WALL                    ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONERS                 MR. WALL: Mr. Chief Justice, and may it         please the Court:               The Federal Circuit has developed such a ­­        a rigid test for enhanced damages in patent infringement         cases that a large number of the worst infringers, even           bad­faith copiers, are not ­­ are immunized from any         enhancement.             The Federal Circuit has done that by moving        away from historical practice in two key ways.                    First, it's made the test all about       recklessness rather than also intent.                 Second, it judges recklessness based on      legal defenses developed in litigation rather than the        facts at the time of the infringement.                   The net result, now that this Court in        Octane and Highmark set aside a similarly artificial         Alderson Reporting Company Official test for fees is a one­of­its­kind, good for         patent­damages­only framework that does not track the       enhancement statute's text, history, or purposes.                  It was not always this way. For nearly          years, district courts conducted a totality inquiry        subject to deferential review. And as part of that,          they said the nature of the infringement has to be more           than negligent if it's going to be an aggravating factor          that counsels in favor of an enhancement.                   That ­­             JUSTICE GINSBURG: But is that ­­ is that         what you're advocating, to return to that, just as a          matter of discretion, for the district court and that's         it?             MR. WALL: In a word, yes. We do think that             there are principles to guide district courts'       discretion, because historically, district courts said      certain things. But the one agreed­upon principle I         think we all agree on, or at least Petitioners and the           PTO do, is the court said in the totality, if the           patentee wants to point to the nature of the         infringement and say that pulls you out of the mine run           of cases and that warrants an enhancement, it had to be           more than negligent. Had to be intentional or reckless          infringement, but based on the facts at the time.         Alderson Reporting Company Official             It was a traditional, willfulness inquiry.       It was not the willfulness inquiry that the Federal         Circuit conducts, which looks at after­the­fact defenses       and not what were the facts facing the infringer at the           time of its ­­               JUSTICE ALITO: You ­­ you referred to the         nature of the infringement. Is that the only thing          that's involved here? Are any of the Petitioners asking          for enhanced damages based on litigation misconduct, for        example?             MR. WALL: Well, I think there was some          litigation misconduct here, and we cited in the district         court's opinion that Zimmer did conceal some things in         the run up to trial. So I think there ­­ there were              some other factors. But I think the major one here, for             instance, in Stryker, was the nature of the        infringement; that they hired an independent contractor,       they handed the contractor a patented product; they         said, essentially, Make one of these for us.                    So ­­             JUSTICE ALITO: We have to decide whether        enhanced damages can be awarded solely based on        litigation misconduct. That would seem to be a separate           question. Or you said that the main thing involved is           the nature of the infringement. So what is the issue           Alderson Reporting Company Official before us?              MR. WALL: Yeah. I ­­ I don't want to say              that you have to. And I want to be careful about             litigation misconduct, because in a number of the older          cases, it was something like concealment, which was post         infringement but prelitigation, so it was a broader         category of misconduct.               But no. I think the only reason that we and            the PTO have pointed to the compensation cases and the          misconduct cases is just to show that for years it           was a totality inquiry, and district courts were looking          at a lot of different things.                   These cases are primarily about the nature       of the infringement. Most cases will be like that. I            think if the Court wanted to provide guidance to the          Federal Circuit about how to run the statute, it should          say go back to doing a totality inquiry, and here's some            of the principles that historically guided your exercise        of discretion. But I don't think you have to do that,             Justice Alito.              MR. WALL: I think you could ­­                    CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Why is the ­­                   MR. WALL: ­­ ordinarily ­­                 CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Why is the nature of         the infringement so determinative under your view?       Alderson Reporting Company Official             Yes, they copied it, but perhaps they had a,         you know, good­faith belief that this wasn't patented.        So the fact that they copied it doesn't seem to me to            automatically make it something which is suitable for        sanctions.             MR. WALL: So the products here were marked.         I mean, they were marked as patented. But I take your             point, Mr. Chief Justice, and I think ­­                    CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Or they could have        had, you know, a good­faith belief that the patent          wasn't valid.              MR. WALL: Sure. And that's exactly        historically how cases played out, and it's how they         should play out once this Court takes care of Seagate,          which is both parties come in at the enhancement stage;          most of the evidence has come in on infringement for          liability or damages.               And the patentee will say, you copied a        patented product and haven't shown any evidence that you         had a reasonable belief in invalidity.                   And the defendant, if the patentee has       carried its burden, will say, no. I did some           investigation. I thought I wasn't infringing. Or I            thought it was invalid.                And a district court will make a judgment          Alderson Reporting Company Official call faced with those competing narratives about what        the right answer is based on the facts.                    Our point is that that judgment call that        district courts were making for a very long time has           essentially been stripped from them because it no longer         matters. Even if you acted intentionally at the time,          as Zimmer did, what the Federal Circuit says is, if you           can hire good lawyers and come up with defenses in          litigation, you'll be off the hook.                  And as Justice Breyer pointed out in the        Octane litigation ­­ and I now know it's true from           preparing for this case, you can ­­ a patent lawyer can            virtually always come up with some nonfrivolous defense        in litigation. And that's why, in effect, what you have           is almost a per se bar.                   JUSTICE BREYER: That may be. But this is          my question on this.                The statute doesn't say anything. The       statute just says: In either event, the Court may          increase the damages up to three times the amount found          or assessed.                I don't get too much guidance from that.                   Let me assume against you, assume against       you, that the history does not favor you. The history           insists upon willful.   Alderson Reporting Company Official             Let me assume with you that there isn't good         ground for clear and convincing. Nothing suggests that.                         But now, the hardest part for me ­­ and it      is hard. I don't have a clear answer ­­ is there are,               indeed, some preliminary in tests. If, for example, the          patentee has a flaw in his patent ­­ not enough to kill             it, but enough to make it pretty uncertain, a weak           patent. There are all kinds of things wrong with it.           No willfulness damages, irrespective, almost, of the       state of mind of the infringer.                  So what could be said for that? You've read          their excellent briefs on both sides, and you know         perfectly well what can be said for that. And if I            summarize it ­­ and that's what I want your answer to.            Today's patent world is not a steam­engine world. We           have decided to patent tens of thousands of software         products and similar things where hardly anyone knows        what the patent's really about. A company that's a           start­up, a small company, once it gets a letter, cannot            afford to pay , to $, for a letter from           Counsel, and may be willing to run its chances.                     You start saying, little company, you must       pay , to $, to get a letter, lest you get            willful damages against you should your bet be wrong.                     We have one more path leading us to national         Alderson Reporting Company Official monopoly by Google and Yahoo or their equivalence, and         the patent statute is not designed to create monopolies         throughout the United States. It's designed to help the          small businessman, not to hurt him. So leave those          words for interpretation to the expert court, and in         this area it may well be the Federal Circuit.                                 argument ­­                         is?             MR. WALL: I ­­     JUSTICE BREYER: Have I stated the        MR. WALL: I ­­     JUSTICE BREYER: ­­ pretty much the way it         All right. If I have, I would like your            response to it.               MR. WALL: I think you have stated the best           possible version of Respondents' argument, and I'm happy        with your assumptions. The PTO embraces them, and we          are not living in a steam­engine world.                    It's a high bar to carry, and I don't think            patentees are often going to be able to do it. And what             you ­­ you rightly said, I think that is what           Respondents have ­­ that's been their strategy in this         Court, is that ­­                           JUSTICE BREYER: Not just their strategy.       MR. WALL: It's ­­    Alderson Reporting Company Official             JUSTICE BREYER: We have all kind of amicus         briefs that say that's the truth. And indeed, thousands          and thousands and thousands of small businessmen are        trying to break into businesses that they just can't do          without software. And when you have tens or hundreds of           thousands of patents on software by other companies,        that means we can't break in.                  MR. WALL: Justice Breyer, the sky didn't        fall for a century and a half, and it's not going to              fall if you reverse the Federal Circuit's framework,        just as it didn't fall after Octane and Highmark in the           fees context.              You've got to show as a patentee, you've got          to ­­             JUSTICE BREYER: It hasn't fallen. Go look         at the market shares of the different companies that are          seriously involved in software.                MR. WALL: Justice Breyer, showing intent or        recklessness based on the facts at the time is not going           to be easy. The intent box is copying patented          products. And I don't think we have a lot of dispute,              that where people are copying patented products in        absence of a reasonable belief in invalidity, it doesn't          matter whether they're making softwares ­­     software or ­­  Alderson Reporting Company Official JUSTICE BREYER: Okay. Then are you        MR. WALL: ­­ carraigeware.     JUSTICE BREYER: ­­ with this? You've just                     satisfied ­­                         used a word that might help: "reasonable belief." We            say that where a company is small, where it is small and             wants to run the risk, follow the Fed Circuit rule, in           order to show willfulness ­­ because it's reasonable ­­        in order to show willfulness, you have to show that that           infringer not only didn't know it was faulty, but also          was a big company that was pretty used to getting these            lawyers' opinions, and also pretty used to asking their         own experts whether it really was a good patent or not.            And they didn't do it here. What about something like           that?             MR. WALL: Justice Breyer, we tried in        opening brief to embrace the full totality of        circumstances, including the strength of the patent, the        kind of notice, what's commercially reasonable in the        industry.             The one point I just want to make, because I           think it's very important, is to get into the         recklessness box at common law, and traditionally, you        had to show an objectively high risk. So as a patentee,             you've got to show to the judge, not just that          Alderson Reporting Company Official infringement occurred, but that a reasonable person        looking at it would have said there is a very high risk             that what I am doing is unlawful because it trenches on            someone else's valid patent.                That's a pretty high bar. You're not going          to be able to satisfy that. You shouldn't be able to            satisfy that in a lot of cases.                       I think the strength of the PTO's argument      is when you can show that, the district court should be           able to make a judgment call about enhancement. And the            fact that it can't shows you that you've really skewed          the incentives. Because on the other side of the parade           of horribles you're worried about are the people who can          infringe, knowing that they can discount by the        probability that they'll be found to have infringed in         litigation with virtually no back­end penalty, even if        they were a very bad infringer, as Zimmer was here.                       JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Tell me how you       articulate this. And I ask because the SG is talking            about describing it as egregious conduct.                  You're saying something about willfulness     and recklessness. And I don't know if this is all a             matter of semantics, but I think the SG is right. Even             if you give discretion to the district courts to make a           judgment of when to enhance penalties, we have to give          Alderson Reporting Company Official them some guidance.                           MR. WALL: Yes.    JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: It can't be that they        can give enhanced penalties on whim.                  MR. WALL: That's right.                 JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: All right? So if it's         not whim, what is it? How do we articulate a test that              protects what Justice Breyer is concerned about, which I         think is a legitimate concern, but doesn't entrench a          position that just favors you?                 MR. WALL: No. No, I ­­                    JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: And by that, I mean, you          know ­­             MR. WALL: Right.                No, I think there's a little bit of daylight           between us and the government, in the sense that we          think the statute was invoked for various purposes and         not just to punish infringement. But to the extent that           you invoke the statute to punish infringement, I think          there is no daylight between our position and the         government's.             JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: So how do ­­                  MR. WALL: And I think what you can say ­­                       JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Help me ­­                 MR. WALL: ­­ that the guidance is, in the          Alderson Reporting Company Official lion's share of cases, what the parties are really         debating is the nature of the infringement. That needs          to be intentional or reckless based on the facts as they           were known to the infringer. And as part of whether the            infringer ­­                                     JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: No, but that ­­ that ­­        MR. WALL: ­­ is acting ­­      JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: ­­ you know, that these        tests understands life a little ­­ is more ­­                     MR. WALL: Sure.                JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: ­­ complex than that.       Okay? Because you can often use the conduct of someone,           after the time, to reflect what they thought. And so if            you're seeing that someone is withholding information,       you might be able to infer that there wasn't good faith           at the beginning.               MR. WALL: Sure.                JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: So your articulation      doesn't really give life to the complexity of this         inquiry.             MR. WALL: So ­­ and to add, then, a little            more, I think what you ought to be taking into account            is, for instance, the strength of the notice. Some of           these letters are just form letters. They really are          nothing more than a license.      Alderson Reporting Company Official             JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: This is all the Read        Corporation factors that the district court here did in         the Stryker case.               MR. WALL: I think that's right. I think            some of them will matter more than others. But some           claim letters are very fulsome. They have a ­­                      JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: That's very nice, but I        don't want to adopt that test. How do I articulate this             in a more generalized way?                  MR. WALL: I think what you would say is           that in judging whether a reasonable person would have          thought that there was a really high risk, you've got to            take account of both the strength of the notice, what          kind of notice were they on of the patent, and what           would have been commercially reasonable in the industry        as it exists. And I think that ­­ those factors and             those limitations are going to take account of the vast          bulk of what Justice Breyer and what Respondents are ­­         are concerned about.               JUSTICE ALITO: Are courts going to be able         to assess the state of mind of the infringer at the time            of the infringer's conduct without getting into       communications with the ­­ with the company's attorneys?                    MR. WALL: Yes, Justice Alito, and they did         historically. And I mean, I would ­­ I would point the               Alderson Reporting Company Official Court to a case like Consolidated Rubber and Judge          Learned Hand's opinion. He said, look, you know, the          patent was open to doubt for a period of time, and so no              enhancement. But at some point here, the facts changed          and the infringer knew about them. It reasonably should          have known the patent was valid. We start the          enhancement running, and then we get some misconduct on         the back end like we had in this case. And so he says,              I'm rolling it all in. This was more than negligent,           and here's the enhancement I'm going to give.                    JUSTICE ALITO: Well, this ­­ you see, you         had the case where at the time when the ­­ the question            of enhanced damages is decided, the judge can see that          the defense was able to ­­ with the help of good           lawyers, was able to put on an objectively reasonable,         although unsuccessful, defense. How are you going to be          able to show that the infringer did not have that same           information at the time of the conduct in question?                     MR. WALL: Well, I think in the typical ­­          the ­­ the intent cases are ­­ are fairly easy because           they're generally copying. I think in the typical          recklessness case, the infringer will come in and say,         here's the fulsome claim letter I sent you. It's           actually got a claim chart. It maps on the infringement            to the patent. I reached out to you. You never             Alderson Reporting Company Official responded and you continued to infringe.                  And I think at that point, then, the         defendant has got to say, okay, I did something, but it            isn't in talking to a lawyer. I talked to my engineers.              I looked at the ­­ the specifications in the patent.          You're ­­ you're limited to devices with four wheels,         and I have three. I think there are lots of things that               are commercially reasonable depending on the      circumstances, and I honestly do think if you ­­ if you            go back and look through the cases historically, that's         what good judges and courts were doing for a long time            before the Federal Circuit essentially stripped      discretion from them, and having taken the bar too low          in Underwater Devices overcompensated in Seagate. We        think the bar ought to be high. We just don't think it             ought to be arbitrarily high as it is now.                     If I could reserve the rest of my time.                      CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, counsel.                   Mr. Martinez.               ORAL ARGUMENT OF ROMAN MARTINEZ               FOR UNITED STATES, AS AMICUS CURIAE,                      SUPPORTING THE PETITIONER               MR. MARTINEZ: Mr. Chief Justice, and may it         please the Court:               We agree with the Federal Circuit and with        Alderson Reporting Company Official all the parties to this case that mere negligence is not           enough to trigger enhanced damages. But the        Federal Circuit is wrong to categorically bar such        damages whenever an infringer presents an objectively       reasonable defense at trial. That role creates an         arbitrary loophole that allows some of the most        egregious infringers to escape enhanced damages.                  JUSTICE KENNEDY: The enhanced damages that       we're discussing really is almost entirely punitive if        the octane standard for attorneys' fees remains in        effect. In other words, an octane standard is ­­ gives           a judge much more latitude to impose ­­ to award          attorneys' fees when there's been unnecessary      resistance. So all we're talking about is punitive         damages.                         MR. MARTINEZ: I ­­ I ­­        JUSTICE KENNEDY: And you ­­ and you want to          just basically dismantle the willfulness structure that       the court of appeals has established; is that correct?                     MR. MARTINEZ: No. I think that's not          correct. I think the Federal Circuit, in our view, took            the law in a good direction or a better direction when             it reversed its Underwater Devices standard which it        said was akin to negligence, and it tried to tighten the           law versus ­­ about willfulness up to make it harder to           Alderson Reporting Company Official get enhanced damages.               We think that was a step in the right          direction, but we think that they made two important         mistakes when they did that. The first one is          essentially that they said that in a case where you have            subjective intent, that, in and of itself, is not enough          to establish a case for enhanced damages. Essentially          that you have to prove recklessness under an objective         standard in each and every case.                  We don't think that's consistent with the       history of the statute, with the purpose of the statute,          with the way punitive damages have ­­ have always been          considered, with the way willfulness has always been        interpreted. So we think that's wrong.                   The second mistake we think that the       Federal Circuit made is with respect to how the         recklessness inquiry is supposed to happen. So        recklessness, everyone agrees, is an objective inquiry.       And in every other area of law where courts are          conducting an objective inquiry, what you ­­ what you're         supposed to do is you're supposed to take a reasonable           man, and you put him in the ­­ the actual person who is             accused of wrongdoing, in his shoes. And you take what           that actual person knew, and you figure out whether a          reasonable man in that person's shoes would have thought         Alderson Reporting Company Official that there was a very high risk that the conduct at            issue was unlawful.               And what the Federal Circuit does is not        that. What they are essentially doing is taking the          reasonable man and giving him the benefit of        omniscience, giving him the benefit of hindsight and        saying, what facts do we know at the time of trial? And             now that we know these facts at the time of trial,           should we retroactively sort of ­­                 JUSTICE BREYER: I didn't think they were         doing that. I thought what they were doing was saying,            we are not going to allow punitive damages in a case            where the patent is so weak. And so we're really not            looking at state of mind.                 And the reason that we're doing that is the         reason I said previously. And the reason that we're not            leaving it up to trial judges is because those           trial judges don't see patent cases very much. And          where they have a pretty good idea of how employment           law, tort law, and all kinds of other law works, they           don't have that, a good idea in respect to patent law.                        And we, the Federal Circuit, do. That's why         we are created. And we are afraid that if we do not use              this objective standard, what we will see is a major           effect discouraging invention because of fear that if we         Alderson Reporting Company Official try to invent, we'll get one of these letters and we           can't afford $, for an opinion.                  Now, I've just repeated the same argument.       But we did create the government, that expert court to          make such determinations in the face of language that         seems to allow it, and so what is wrong with they're           doing what they were paid to do?                   MR. MARTINEZ: I think there are ­­ there          are a couple things that are wrong with ­­ with that.            Because I think the first thing that they're paid to do            is to look to the text and history of the statute. And             the text is ­­ as you said, doesn't provide a          categorical ­­ is silent. It doesn't provide the kind          of categorical bar that the Federal Circuit is asking         for.             And the history of the statute affirmatively       undermines that categorical bar because the history       makes clear that subjective bad intent, the ­­ the         wanton and malicious pirate that this Court talked about         in the Seymour case, that is a sufficient basis to           enhance damages.              With respect to the recklessness standard,      the fact that ­­ that recklessness is objective, we all          agree with that. But there's no reason to conduct the           objective analysis in a different way in this context          Alderson Reporting Company Official from the way that it's conducted in every other context.                      search ­­             And imagine a police search. A police          JUSTICE BREYER: But I just gave you the          reason. Now, you can say that you don't agree with that            reason and give me a reason why it's wrong, but just to             say it's no reason is disturbing.                  MR. MARTINEZ: Well, I think ­­ I think that            the reason you gave is that ­­ I think, of concern that             we share, which is that we think it's important in cases           where a patent is of questionable validity. We think           it's important to encourage people in certain cases to         challenge the patent or to make sure that innovation is          not being stifled. And we think that the ordinary          standard test for recklessness in our test accommodates        that concern because it would treat a reasonable         good­faith belief that a patent is invalid or that          infringement is not occurring as a reason to conclude          that enhanced damages are off the table.                   CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: As I read your brief          and the Petitioner's brief, I got the sense that there           was quite a bit of difference between the two. The            government seems to be taking a much higher standard          before these punitive damages, or however you want to         describe them, would be allowed. You use terms like          Alderson Reporting Company Official "egregious" a lot. Your friend uses terms like, you           know, "intentional," more than mere negligence. Is that         perception ­­ do you think that perception is an         accurate one?              MR. MARTINEZ: I think there's some minor         differences. Let me explain how we see our standard and           maybe what the differences are.                 We think our standard covers three different       buckets of cases. The first bucket ­­ and this is borne            out by the history ­­ the first bucket are cases in           which there's intentional conduct or bad­faith conduct       under a subjective standard, a subjective analysis.         That's bucket number one. But ­­                  CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Just a ­­ for one          just brief moment. By "intentional," you mean        intentional infringement, not intentional ­­                MR. MARTINEZ: No. Intentional conduct by a         person who believes that he is infringing a valid          patent.             CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Okay.                 MR. MARTINEZ: In other words, if you have a          good­faith belief that the patent is not valid and that          belief's reasonable, we don't think you're an       intentional infringer.              The ­­ the second bucket covers recklessness       Alderson Reporting Company Official cases. And we all agree that recklessness is judged by           an objective standard. Where we disagree with the other          side is we think it's judged based on the facts and the            circumstances that are known to the actual infringer at         the time of infringement.                And then the third bucket that we think        is ­­ would qualify for enhanced damages are cases         involving other types of egregious misconduct not having        to do with the infringement itself. For example, if          there's corporate espionage, if one of the parties        destroyed evidence.                I think the difference between us and      Petitioner is very minor. I think they would also allow            enhanced damages for certain purely compensatory      purposes, even when a case did not fall into the other            three buckets.              We ­­ we can have a ­­ a interesting           historical discussion about whether or not that ­­ that         basis for damages is warranted or not. I don't think            the Court needs to resolve that in this case, because          it's not presented. But we do think our test is limited            to those three buckets: Essentially, intentional       conduct, reckless conduct, and other types of egregious        litigation misconduct.              We think that ­­ that that test is ­­        Alderson Reporting Company Official             JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: That avoids the use of        the word "willfulness."               MR. MARTINEZ: Excuse me?                 JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: That avoids the use of        the word "willfulness."               MR. MARTINEZ: Right. And I think ­­ we           think there is ­­               JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: But the bucket is there.                    MR. MARTINEZ: There's a sort of semantic         element to this case. I think if you wanted to use             that ­­ those three buckets to encompass willfulness, I         think we wouldn't stand in the way of that. I think the              problem that we see with what the Respondents are trying          to do is that they're looking to the history, the          pre­ cases, and they're taking the word "willful"        out of that. They're plucking that word out, and then           they're defining it in a way that's at odds with the way             in which willfulness or the way in which the standard          was applied before .                We think if ­­ if history is the        justification for imposing a willfulness requirement in        the first place, history has to provide the guide for          interpreting what willfulness means or what the standard        is.             And I think that ­­ that one of the ironies           Alderson Reporting Company Official of the Respondents' position is that they agree that         this statute is ­­ Section is trying to get at           culpable infringers. It's ­­ the touchstone is        culpability.             And they agree that recklessness is culpable       enough to get you into enhanced damages world. And yet,           everyone agrees, everyone in the civil law and the         criminal law, intentional misconduct has always been       considered worse than reckless conduct. And yet, their         test would allow a class of intentional infringers to          essentially get out of jail free based on their ability          to hire a lawyer and come up with a ­­ a post hoc                defense and present that defense at trial.                   JUSTICE KAGAN: Can I ask ­­                   JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Why isn't that post hoc        defense necessarily ­­ you're almost reading it as        unreasonable, by definition.               MR. MARTINEZ: I think it's possible to         imagine ­­ let me ­­ let me make it concrete.                      Imagine a case in which there's intentional        violation or a reckless violation based on the facts          known at the time. And later the ­­ the person is sued,             the infringer is sued, and he hires a law firm that            scours the world, and they find the library in Germany          that has a Ph.D. dissertation that has some patents that           Alderson Reporting Company Official arguably anticipated the invention at issue. So that's         a new fact. It wasn't in anyone's head. No one was             aware of it at the time the infringement occurred.                     And maybe that law firm then puts together a         reasonable but wrong theory under which the patent is         invalid in light of that prior art. We think that's a            case in which the ­­ the conduct was culpable at the           time of ­­ of infringement, and we think that's a case            that would warrant enhanced damages.                 CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Justice Kagan, did       you have a question?                 JUSTICE KAGAN: Can I ask: If you were           doing this just on policy ­­ very odd, but you know, we            have a text that everybody's off of at this point.           And ­­ and maybe some viewed that what happened in ,           for some of the reasons that Justice Breyer gave, is          perhaps not the most relevant thing. If you were doing           it just on policy, would you come up with this same           test?             MR. MARTINEZ: Yes. We would, and the PTO          would. We think that the ­­ the policy concern that           Congress had in mind of ensuring deterrents and        punishment is ­­ outweighs some of the considerations        that have been raised by Justice Breyer and others.                     As long as we realize that as long as you          Alderson Reporting Company Official have a good­faith and reasonable defense, that will be a           defense to liability. And as long as we realize that           you need to have the kind of intentional or reckless          conduct that ­­ you know, it's a very high standard ­­           you need to have that kind of conduct in order to           warrant enhanced damages.               CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, counsel.                   Mr. Phillips.             ORAL ARGUMENT OF CARTER G. PHILLIPS                    ON BEHALF OF THE RESPONDENTS                 MR. PHILLIPS: Thank you, Mr. Chief Justice,        and may it please the Court:                  Before I get into the substance of my         argument, one point that seems to me to cry out, at           least in response to the characterizations by my ­­ from          Mr. Wall where he repeatedly described Zimmer's conduct        as copying the invention in this case, what ­­ what the           Zimmer Corporation copied was the product itself.       The ­­ the patent wasn't released or issued until two          years of that initial copying.                 There's nothing inherently wrong with     finding that a competitor has built a new product, not            know anything about the patents or any patentability, no         evidence of any patents, and think you're going to copy          it ­­ Alderson Reporting Company Official CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, I thought you         MR. PHILLIPS: ­­ and improve on it.                    said ­­                         I'm sorry?              CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: I thought you said         the product was marked.                MR. PHILLIPS: After , it was marked.        But the ­­ but the actions taken by Zimmer at the time            were , two years before the patent even issued. I           just want to clarify that.                   I also want to go back to the point that ­­         that ­­             JUSTICE GINSBURG: There had been a patent         application, though?              MR. PHILLIPS: Right. But there was no         evidence whatsoever that ­­ that Zimmer at that time had          any knowledge of anything in the patent ­­ in the ­­                      JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: I'm sorry. Doesn't the        statute exempt out enhanced damages for pending       applications?                                     MR. PHILLIPS: Yes, it does.      JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: So why are you here?        MR. PHILLIPS: If ­­ no, no, no. It's ­­          all I'm suggesting is that ­­ that it's a         mischaracterization of the ­­ of the facts to say that          Alderson Reporting Company Official this involves purely copying, beginning from the very        outset of the process.                That's not to say that there couldn't be an         argument somewhere along the line that they ­­ that         there ­­ there might have been an argument of         willfulness. But this is not a classic copying case. I             mean, in a lot of ways this case comes down to sort of              trolls versus pirates in terms of how you want to          analyze it. And our view is ­­ and ­­ and I thought the               example that the Solicitor General's office just offered        you tells you everything you should know about this.                     His ­­ his criticism is that a good lawyer          is hired and goes off and searches in the German          libraries and finds some basis upon which to challenge         legitimately the validity of that patent.                  Now, if it had turned out that in those         German sources they had, in fact, demonstrated that that         patent was invalid, the position of the world would be          that's great, because this patent should be declared        invalid and the monopoly that attaches to it should be          declared null and void and unenforceable.                  The fact that they found it and it turns out          not to get you over the hump shouldn't be, by any           stretch of the imagination, lead to a ­­ to a standard             of the law that discourages us from going out and trying           Alderson Reporting Company Official to find both the limits of the metes and bounds of the            patent itself as ­­ as defined by the ­­ by the patent            holder, and to challenge the invalidity of those patents         under all circumstances.               And Justice Breyer, I mean, that goes to the          core point that you were making. We're not talking          about a situation here where it's obvious when something          is infringed. There are thousands of patents, hundreds         of thousands of patents. There are lots of entities          creating new products every day, new services, if you         want to go beyond the products and the patent law,          and ­­             JUSTICE BREYER: My empirical information ­­      I mean my empirical information ­­ ha, ha, ha, laughs          slightly ­­ is ­­ is coming out of the briefs, which you            do have to admit has an interest.                   The ­­ the ­­ I have ­­ I have assumed, and             is there stuff that I could look at to back this up ­­             that in a world of patent and copyright protection, I           think it's unfortunate that Congress hasn't passed a        special regime for those kinds of patents, but they         haven't.             In that such ­­ in that a world like that,           we're seeing more and more companies that have more and          more, and continuously more patents. And if all that          Alderson Reporting Company Official happens is you send a letter to somebody who has           something that's trying to break into the industry, and         they don't have enough money to hire many lawyers, that          becomes a serious barrier, and that the government's         rule in your view, and the opponent's rule in your view,           will raise those barriers to entry.                  Now, that's a very elementary kind of        assumption. And I do admit it's supported by the briefs            on your side.               And is there anything you would refer me to         that would suggest that maybe I have a point, and your             briefs have a point?                 MR. PHILLIPS: Well, the ­­ the briefs that         I thought were particularly effective, Justice Breyer,       are the amicus brief of public knowledge and ­­                    JUSTICE BREYER: Of course. I've looked        through them, and I understand they're effective. I          just feel a little bit more comfortable when I can read             something that isn't participating in the litigation,       and it, too, bears out this view.                   MR. PHILLIPS: Well, Professor Lumley has       written on the subject repeatedly, and he ­­                   JUSTICE BREYER: Lumley has also said quite        a lot that he's worried about lawyers coming in and          inventing various things that make the patent look weak         Alderson Reporting Company Official after the event. You see? I mean, he ­­                                   on this.              MR. PHILLIPS: Right. But ­­      JUSTICE BREYER: He is not totally with you         MR. PHILLIPS: But there are ­­ but there         are two separate issues here. Let's ­­ so, and I'll           take those in turn.                  The first one is, is there empirical     evidence that there is a significant amount of activity          out there in which patents are asserted in ­­ in more or            less specific ways. You'll recall the example given         by ­­ by my friend was you receive a letter that            identifies the precise claims, identifies exactly how       you infringe it, and it's ignored. Well, I can assure            you, that is not the standard letter, and that's not the           kind of letters that are involved in this case.                     The letter we got said, we have patents,        would you like to ­­ would you like to pay a royalty for              those patents. It didn't identify the claims. It          didn't tell us anything about them. We handed them to           an engineer. The engineer looked at them and said, "It           looks the same as the product we're already producing."         Put it aside. We went forward with it, and we find out             later we ­­              JUSTICE BREYER: Is there a way of         Alderson Reporting Company Official compromising this in this way? To say to the circuit,           we see your point. Okay? And by and large, we accept             it, but there can be very big companies that make a           habit of getting those letters and giving the things to          engineers, as we saw right now in this case. And where            something like that goes on normally, then a refusal          deliberately to do it for fear it comes back with the           wrong answer. Or you do do it and you get the wrong             answer and you go ahead anyway.                  That may be worth willful damages even       though, in fact, there was a slight flaw with this           patent.                         MR. PHILLIPS: Justice Breyer ­­     JUSTICE BREYER: What about that? Giving        them some leeway around the edges?                  MR. PHILLIPS: Justice Breyer, I understand        the desire to always be in a position where you can sort             of catch that one party that's out there, and I think            the real issue there is twofold. One is, is it worth            the candle to go ­­ I mean, you really need to go find              that one ­­              JUSTICE BREYER: Well, leave it to the        circuit to decide.               MR. PHILLIPS: ­­ entity ­­ the circuit's        already decided. I think that's ­­       Alderson Reporting Company Official             JUSTICE BREYER: Well, I have ­­ they have          that squarely facing them, where they had ­­ where         they ­­ and they did? Did they have that issue that ­­                        MR. PHILLIPS: Well, I mean, they had the          facts in this case where the ­­ where if ­­ if you ­­ if              you accept, obviously, the plaintiffs' version of it,        there ­­ there was a fair amount of information ­­                      JUSTICE BREYER: And your other point. You         were just about to make a second point. Do ­­ do you              remember? See, for one thing it's easy ­­ it was a good              point, too.              (Laughter.)             MR. PHILLIPS: I always ­­ I always          appreciate it when you anticipate I'm going to make a          good point before I make the good point, but ­­                      JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Mr. Phillips, I ­­ I ­­          there's a whole lot of worry articulated by         Justice Breyer and reflected in your briefs about        protecting innovation.                          MR. PHILLIPS: Yes, Your Honor.      JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: But there's not a whole         lot of worry about protecting the patent owner. I can't            forget that historically enhanced damages were      automatic, and they were automatic because of a policy          judgment that owning a patent entitled you to not have           Alderson Reporting Company Official people infringe willfully or not willfully. And I         accept that at some point there was a different judgment           made that ­­ that good­faith infringers should be        treated differently than other infringers, willful      infringers.             But I don't know that that swung things so          far the other way that it can only be that, if you come             up with something, any defense whatsoever in the        litigation that's not frivolous, that that gets you out         of enhanced damages.                                       guess ­­                                     MR. PHILLIPS: But let me just say ­­        JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: If I'm there ­­      MR. PHILLIPS: ­­ I think that ­­ but I           JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: If I'm there ­­      MR. PHILLIPS: Right.    JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: ­­ and I don't think         that the Seagate test is ­­ is ­­ is appropriate but I            am still in the balance of how do we get ­­                                  MR. PHILLIPS: Right.    JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: ­­ a similar protection        without an artificial test that I don't think is          right ­­             MR. PHILLIPS: Right.                JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: ­­ where ­­ where do I         Alderson Reporting Company Official go?             MR. PHILLIPS: Well, let ­­ let me at least          correct one portion of the statement because you said         that ­­ enough to put forward that it's not frivolous.          I ­­ I don't think that's the appropriate standard.                      Objective reasonableness is the requirement     that the Federal Circuit has looked at, and I think           that's more than simply the ability to satisfy Rule .          I think there has to be a substantial defense. And            substantial defenses were put forward in both of these         cases. Indeed these were, in both instances, close         cases. So I would hope that that's where the Court            would ­­ would focus its attention.                  JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Well, the different      court called it differently in the second case.                    MR. PHILLIPS: Right. But again, I think          it's important to look at the ­­ the way the court of            appeals analyzed it. And the reality is I think if            you ­­ and it's the reason why you have to have an            experienced, an expert court of appeals looking at these         issues on an objective ­­ on the ­­ on the basis of an             objective analysis because they are the ones who have         seen these kinds of claim­construction issues, have seen        these kinds of infringement issues. They're in the best          position to be able to say, this is objectively         Alderson Reporting Company Official reasonable and, therefore, not something on which       enhanced damages should be added.                 What I think it's important to put in         context, because you're going through the history of        this, is to ­­ is, again, to look at the difference           between Section as it evolved and the ­­ and the           meaning of Section .                  I mean, this Court last term said      Section has now ­­ has now ­­ it's not essential or            effective. It has completely made the enhanced damages         purely punitive because every other piece of conduct        goes into the portion that talks about whether you get          the attorneys' fees.                           CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, you are ­­       MR. PHILLIPS: That's what makes an       extraordinary case.                          Yes, Your Honor. I'm sorry.      CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: We are, after all,        dealing with statutory language. And I'm not sure it's          been quoted yet. It says, "The Court may increase the           damages up to three times the amount found or assessed."          Period.                         MR. PHILLIPS: Right.    CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: And yet the Federal        Circuit standard, you've got ­­ you know, you've got         Alderson Reporting Company Official heightened burdens of proof, particularly articulated.      I mean, the way we ­­ the ­­ courts have been used to             dealing with discretionary standards for a long time.         And the way it works is, historically, you know, the          exercise of discretion in a lot of cases that, you know,            wears a channel which kind of confines the exercise of           discretion. And I think the other side's argument is           based on that history.                            MR. PHILLIPS: Right. And ­­      CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Over time, this is        what discretion has ­­ has given us in this area, and           therefore, you get beyond that, it's an abuse. But to           erect this fairly elaborate standard on the basis of         that language I think is surprising.                   MR. PHILLIPS: I ­­ I ­­ I understand that,             and that's why I think you have to take it one step at a               time.             First of all, you ­­ you quoted one portion         of the language of ­­ of . The portion that I focus              on particularly is the ­­ you begin with damages         adequate to compensate for the infringement. So the ­­          is now ­­ and, you know, since , has been           focused exclusively on the infringement. It's not any         other kind of ancillary conduct. It's only enhanced         damages for the infringement because those are the        Alderson Reporting Company Official only ­­ you know, that ­­ those damages are one and the            same.             Then you get to the point where Seagate        says, if we don't have a strong enough standard of           recklessness and willfulness and an objective standard       that can be examined by us independently, the downside         risks and the harm to the economy is ­­ is very           substantial. There have been ­­ there are huge numbers          of these letters being sent, litigation. It skews every          aspect of it.               And then Congress comes back in the America        Invents Act, and through the process leading up to the          America Invents Act, Seagate comes into being, and ­­        and the ­­ and the Federal Circuit takes a very hard            look at it.               Congress looks at that and says, we're not        going to change Section because, in light of         Seagate, that willfulness standard, which is the       standard the Court was very explicit about, that helped         solve the problem that all of us had been concerned          about.             The Congress didn't just leave it at ­­ at         where you have to infer this from silence or inaction by           Congress. Congress passed the Section . And in          Section it talks about opinions of counsel and what          Alderson Reporting Company Official role they play in the willfulness determination.                   It seems to me, in order to give Section          any significant meaning, you have to have concluded,        then, that necessarily incorporates a standard of         willfulness even though, obviously, it's not in the        language, but that's ­­               JUSTICE KAGAN: But I don't know how far          that gets you, Mr. Phillips, because Mr. Martinez just         told us that he'd be happy to call willfulness his test.                       And willfulness has meant different things      to different people here.                            MR. PHILLIPS: Yes.    JUSTICE KAGAN: And there's nothing that       Congress did that suggests that, when it used that word          "willfulness," it really meant the Seagate test.                   MR. PHILLIPS: Well, the only test in front         of it at the point ­­ at that point in time was Seagate             because Seagate was the definition of what was about          and what the standard of willfulness was about.                    But I think what's equally important,       Justice Kagan, is ­­ I'll ­­ I'll concede that         willfulness can have a lot of different meanings, but          the meaning that the Seagate court adopted was the ­­         was the meaning this Court adopted in Safeco. And it's           interesting because my friends did not ­­ didn't say the          Alderson Reporting Company Official word "Safeco" at all in their minutes of         presentation.             But ­­ and this is why it's not such a big            jump, Mr. Chief Justice, because what ­­ what Seagate         said is what's ­­ what's the best source for trying to           come up with a sensible way of applying willfulness?          And ­­ and they looked at Safeco, and they said, you           know, the ­­ the best way to do it is with a            recklessness standard. That's an objective      determination. And the fact that there may be         subjective, bad ­­ bad intent is off the table. I mean,             that's footnote of the Safeco opinion, and the Court          said ­­             JUSTICE GINSBURG: Can we ­­ can we ­­                    MR. PHILLIPS: ­­ that's the best way to         enforce this statute.               JUSTICE GINSBURG: Can we at least peel off         the clear and convincing evidence that seems to come out          of nowhere and the ­­ the ­­ the standard is de novo            review rather than abuse of discretion?                  MR. PHILLIPS: I would ­­ I would          desperately ask you not to take out de novo review          because it ­­ we're talking about an objective standard;         it's really almost ­­ it's essentially a question of          law. The issue is, is there an objectively reasonable          Alderson Reporting Company Official basis for what's been done here? I don't believe that's            a ­­ that's a ­­                             JUSTICE GINSBURG: But ­­    MR. PHILLIPS: ­­ standard that you can        deferentially ­­             JUSTICE GINSBURG: ­­ how about clear and        convincing evidence? You've been ­­                 MR. PHILLIPS: Well, the ­­ the clear and         convincing standard, I don't think is ­­ is ­­ is           particularly relevant to the ­­ how this case got         decided. Because at the end of the day, it's not           because it was clear and convincing. At the end of the            day, it was because there was objectively reasonable        defenses that were put forward in both of these cases.                      In a proper case, obviously you ­­ you'd         have to fight that fight. The only thing I can say ­­             well, that's not the only thing. There's two things you           can say in defense of clear and convincing. First, it           was in existence in . Congress passed The America          Invents Act, didn't modify it, and so may have, in that           sense, either acquiesced or ratified it under those        circumstances.             And second, we're talking about punitive      damages. And therefore, under normal circumstances,       it's certainly not a matter of indifference when you're          Alderson Reporting Company Official talking about allowing a plaintiff to go forward and ­­          and just skew completely the entire litigation process        as a consequence of having access to treble damages. In            that context, some heightened standard might make sense.        In this context, it's hard for me to get excited about           it one way or the other, because these are not really           factual questions. If you were in a subjective intent           standard, that would be a different issue.                                In the context of objective ­­     JUSTICE GINSBURG: But you can't have abuse        of discretion.                          MR. PHILLIPS: I'm sorry?     JUSTICE GINSBURG: You ­­ you care about        de novo review in the Federal Circuit rather than         testing the district court's determination for abuse of        discretion.             MR. PHILLIPS: Yes, Justice Ginsburg. I        think it is critical ­­ there are two elements of this           that are absolutely critical. And I suppose, in some           ways, it goes to the question you asked,        Justice Sotomayor. What are you ­­ what are the          absolute critical elements that you need to take out of          Seagate to apply in these cases? And candidly, both          would lead you to affirm in both instances on the facts           of these cases.   Alderson Reporting Company Official             One, you need to have an objective       assessment of whether or not there is a reasonably          objective set of circumstances that allow the defendant        to say this ­­ either these patents are invalid, or we           do not infringe those patents.                 And two, you have to have that reviewed        nondeferentially by the Federal Circuit in order to        ensure that the or ­­ I forget how many district             court judges there are ­­ do not sort of go off on a             tangent and ­­ and that we get the consistent review by           the objective and expert body that the Federal Circuit         is.             JUSTICE ALITO: The recklessness decision      here seems different from those that generally come up.         But maybe you can provide an example where this occurs          outside of this context.                Usually, to determine whether someone was      reckless, you have to assess the ­­ the nature of the           risk, the severity of the risk. And in the typical tort            case, the severity of the risk may seem greater at the           time of trial than it did at the time of the           tortfeasor's action, because someone has been harmed.       But in this situation, the ­­ the degree of the risk           seems smaller at the time of the determination of         enhanced damages than it may have been at the time of ­­           Alderson Reporting Company Official of the infringement. And I can't think of another ­­           because it's a legal risk. And the first determination           may not have been made with the assistance or very          intense analysis by attorneys, and then the latter time,         the attorneys are very much involved.                  Is there any other situation where a       recklessness determination has those characteristics?                 MR. PHILLIPS: Well, I think ­­ I think the            copyright would probably be the other one that sort of          attends to it in the same way, because it's essentially          the same kind of an inquiry. I mean, part of the             problem is it's the nature of the continuing tort         action, and it's also the fact that the infringement         determination is ­­ is a matter of strict liability.          So ­­ but, you know, there are a thousand obviously           different ways of ­­ different situations that can        arise.             But, you know, if you're in a situation         where you've ­­ you've come out with a product, you           think it's a perfectly good product. You may or may not             have been looking at patents. You didn't see anything          that creates a problem for it. You ­­ you put the ­­             you put it in the market. Two, three years later           somebody sends you a letter. And then ­­ and the letter             is not very specific. Maybe ­­ and then ­­ so you say,             Alderson Reporting Company Official I don't ­­ I don't see anything here. I don't envision              a problem. You keep going forward. You get ­­ and then             you get a very specific letter. And you look at that,             and you say, well, gee, okay. I see that.                         I mean, part of the problem with the notion        of looking at these things and saying we're not going to           have a post hoc analysis is it's almost impossible to           define post hoc from win.                 law?                         JUSTICE BREYER: How does it work in tort         MR. PHILLIPS: Well, in tort law ­­       JUSTICE BREYER: I mean, you can imagine         situations where when the actor takes a risk, it looks           tremendously great. But by the time trial is over, it           was pretty small. It happened, but, you know, the          eggshell skull. He thought almost certainly he had one.          And he did, but the chances of his having one were a            million to one against it. Punitives, how does the          reckless ­­ do you have any idea?                   MR. PHILLIPS: Well, you take ­­ I mean,          obviously, you take the ­­ the plaintiff as you ­­                     JUSTICE BREYER: Yeah. But it turns out as          you found it, it wasn't very bad. And what you thought            you were going to find, then, was just terrible. This           must come up.   Alderson Reporting Company Official             MR. PHILLIPS: Right, but I ­­ my guess is           in those circumstances, Justice Breyer, there aren't       punitive damages.                                                  on ­­             JUSTICE BREYER: There are?     MR. PHILLIPS: There are not, because ­­       JUSTICE BREYER: There are not.      MR. PHILLIPS: ­­ normally act reasonably       JUSTICE BREYER: Well, then we would have        a ­­ an analogy on your side, because the other way, it            would be an analogy on the other side.                    MR. PHILLIPS: Well, let my friend on the         other side come forward with tort cases in which the          eggshell plaintiff gets punitive damages because the       defendant overreacted.              JUSTICE KENNEDY: Is there any way to allow         some consideration for a subjective intent to infringe         in an egregious case, as an additional element for ­­ as           an additional way to define willfulness without       completely wrecking the Seagate standard?                 MR. PHILLIPS: I ­­ I think if you ­­ if you              are in a situation where you're past recklessness, that          is, there is no defense, there's no objective, they have          no ­­ you know, this is a true pirate. No objectively             reasonable argument. They ­­ they saw the product; they          Alderson Reporting Company Official built it. Maybe they don't operate within the United          States. They just sell here. They operate outside the           United States, think they'll never get caught, et        cetera. And in those circumstances, they don't have a          defense. And then you also can prove that they acted           with absolute intent and knowledge of the patent, et         cetera, you know, then the question ­­ would you take          that to the ­­ to the max, to three times? Because            that's where the discretion lies in this report.                    JUSTICE KAGAN: No. But take a case          where ­­ take a case where there's somebody who          absolutely wants to copy a product. He says,          Mr. Jones ­­              MR. PHILLIPS: Copy a product or copy a          patent?             JUSTICE KAGAN: A patented product.                   MR. PHILLIPS: Okay.                JUSTICE KAGAN: All right? So same thing,         let's call it.               Mr. Jones sells a product that involves a         patent, and it's selling very well. And Mr. Smith comes           along and says I want to copy that patent and that            product and sell the same thing so that I can reap those             profits too, and ­­ and does that.                   Now, the Seagate's test says that as long as         Alderson Reporting Company Official his lawyer can come along at the end and raise some kind            of doubt about the patent's validity, the fact that ­­ I           forget whether it was Mr. Smith or Mr. Jones ­­ but the            fact that ­­              MR. PHILLIPS: Well, one of them.                   (Laughter.)             JUSTICE KAGAN: The fact that he went and         said I am going to copy this patent so that I can reap               the benefits of some other person's work, that doesn't         make a difference. And that's, I think, the question            that Justice Kennedy was asking. It seems to stick in           the craw a bit.                 MR. PHILLIPS: Right. Well, one answer to         Justice Kennedy is there is a role for that kind of            subjective bad faith, but it's only after you make the          determination that ­­              JUSTICE KAGAN: Right. But that's not        enough. Because, you know, if I'm Mr. Jones and I'm           saying is it worth my while to go copy this patent, and            I think, you know what? A lot of patents are not valid.              I'll take this risk. I will ­­ I will make a lot of                 money selling this patented product, and if somebody        calls me on it, I'll go hire myself a lawyer, and that             lawyer will come up with some kind of argument about why           the patent is not valid after all.       Alderson Reporting Company Official MR. PHILLIPS: Okay.    JUSTICE KAGAN: That seems like it's a                                bad ­­ that seems like a bad incentive.                     MR. PHILLIPS: Right. Justice Kagan, the ­­        two basic points I would make to that. First of all,             the ­­ I don't remember if it's Mr. Jones or Mr. Smith,             but the bad actor, we'll call it ­­ the bad actor in            that circumstance obviously has to pay the full        compensation for the infringement, which is in some        instances, tens of millions of dollars, will almost        certainly be subject to attorneys' fees under       Section . So it's not as though you're getting a           pass under that ­­ in that situation.                   Now, I understand the desire to ­­ to have          enhanced damages against that particular bad actor.       That's why I say in a lot of ways, this case comes down               to what do you worry about more, pirates or trolls? My            assessment of this, and I think it's borne out by the            way the Federal Circuit has looked at this problem, is          that there are not that ­­ there are not very many           pirates out there. And if you keep a rule that is             designed simply to get the one in a million pirates ­­ I             would call them unicorns ­­ but one in a million           pirates, you'd end up with a rule that will allow the            trolls to go after every legitimate producer of products         Alderson Reporting Company Official and services in this country. And that's the price          you'd have to pay to get at the ­­ at the really bad             actor.             JUSTICE BREYER: See, the question ­­ I know          this is not exactly a question that we've seen in your            briefs, but we see countering in your brief, is there          was a company. And the company made, I think, cotton             goods. And an individual thought that he could make a           lot of money by taking those cotton goods and the          machinery that they were used and selling it all over          the United States. And so he did it. I think it was               Alexander Hamilton.              (Laughter.)             JUSTICE BREYER: I'm not sure. And as a          result, New England grew rich.                 Now, supposed he'd gotten a letter one day         that said, we have a patent. We have a patent. And it                would have cost him $ million to look into it, and he            didn't have all the money so he thought he'd run his           chances. Suddenly I'm not so sure which way the          equities would work out. That's your point. Both of           you have a point.                             MR. PHILLIPS: Right.    JUSTICE BREYER: And that's why I'm looking        for is there some way we can get the real worst ones            Alderson Reporting Company Official without destroying what you don't want to have destroyed         and yet, where he's really worried about the real worst          ones?             MR. PHILLIPS: And I think the answer, at          the end of the day, is Congress made the choice, I           think ­­             JUSTICE BREYER: They just used the word        "willful." I'm not ­­                MR. PHILLIPS: No, no. But it did it          against the backdrop of the ­­ of the Seagate standard.          Because Seagate clearly made a judgment that as between          a raft of claims by nonpracticing entities arising out         of a raft of letters and everything that goes with that,            between that and the risk of a true pirate out there,            that Congress ­­ that it thought the better answer         clearly was that we should ­­ we should protect and ­­          and limit the ­­ the scope of the patents and make sure            that they are being properly challenged in a ­­                     CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: But the ­­ the ­­        the choice is reflected in the statute, which leaves a          lot of discretion to the district courts. And I          think ­­ and a lot of the arguments we've heard today            are the sort of arguments that can be made to the           district court's discretion in a particular case.        Saying, you know, this ­­ this is one of those pirates           Alderson Reporting Company Official or, you know, trolls, and it is a serious one or it's             less serious one. And you have these standards to          apply, and ­­ and the district court will exercise the          discretion.             And if it's out of the channel of        discretion, then the Court can review it on that basis.                      MR. PHILLIPS: Mr. Chief Justice, I think         the problem with that is ­­ is that it ­­ unless you            come up with ­­ I mean, I ­­ you know, recklessness ­­             I ­­ or egregiousness ­­ I don't know what          "egregiousness" means, and I don't know how you ­­ how           you evaluate that on review.                   I do know what it means to ­­ to take an          objectively reasonable position. More than simply       something that's beyond frivolous, it is a substantial         argument that either the patent doesn't extend to ­­ to          my particular product or the patent itself is invalid.         And circumstances where ­­ where that is true, my hope          would be that the Court, recognizing the extraordinary        importance of limiting patents and the monopolies that        flow from there, would drive the legal decision in this          context ­­ of the legal standard in this context exactly          where the ­­ where the Court adopted it in Seagate.                      That's the court that has the experience and        expertise, and I would hope under these circumstances,         Alderson Reporting Company Official in this very unusual situation, because patent law in         this context I do think is very different than almost           any other tort context, I would hope in the one ­­ in             the ­­ in the decidedly one­sided approach that is,          where it only gives to the plaintiffs the ability to do           what they can do and what they want, that the Court           would adopt the kind of rigorous objective standard that         allows both for the ­­ both for the determination that          the ­­ that the patent is invalid or doesn't infringe,          and that that's examined on an objective basis.                    If there are no further questions, Your       Honors, I urge the Court to affirm.                    CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you,      Mr. Phillips.              Mr. Wall, you have four minutes remaining.                 REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF JEFFREY B. WALL                    ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONERS                 MR. WALL: Mr. Chief Justice, I have two          fairly simple points.               The first is, as we and the PTO and many of           Respondents' amici recognize, the system as it currently        stands is out of balance. And we have tried, and I            believe we have succeeded, in crafting an approach that         balances the Court's concerns with the need to respect         the rights of patentees, including small companies like        Alderson Reporting Company Official And we've done it in a couple of different          Reasonable, good­faith efforts to ­­ to      Halo.             ways.             challenge patents are not going to result in enhanced         damages. And intent and recklessness are not going to          be and should not be easy to show.                    Now, the Federal Circuit hasn't adopted a       contrary approach based on its expertise. It thought it          had to in light of this Court's decision in Safeco,          which it has misread. Safeco says if you adopt a           reasonable view of the law at the time, you're not          acting willfully. It doesn't say if you subjectively         and correctly believe that you are violating the law,         you are held not to be willful because you have hired a            good lawyer and come up with a defense later.                      And that approach is what has skewed the        incentives in the patent system and taken us out of          balance.             Our approach incentivizes good, commercially     reasonable behavior under the full set of circumstances        at the discretion of the district court. Their approach          is incentivizing good litigation.                And the second point I just want to make          quickly is we do have the evidentiary burden and         Alderson Reporting Company Official standard of review in this case. I think it's clear            that the ­­ there isn't any basis for the clear and           convincing standard. On the standard of review, I think           Highmark resolves and I think Pierce v. Underwood         resolves it.              These are determinations bound up with the       facts, and just as the Court said in Pierce, whether a           litigating position is substantially justified is a       mixed question of fact and law. So too the questions           here. These should be reviewed for abuse of discretion,          and it's very important for the Court to say that.                      Halo should go back to the district court        and be analyzed under the right standard so the         evidentiary burden matters.               In Stryker the district court actually got       to the discretionary way, did it, and on appeal, Zimmer          never challenged that as an abuse of discretion. It          just argued about the objective prong.                  When this Court takes that out of the        analysis, as it should, there's no basis to disturb the          district court's discretionary ruling. As the Court        knows from looking at it, it's a thorough and reasonable           opinion. So ­­               JUSTICE ALITO: One point Mr. Phillips       brought up that you didn't address in your initial         Alderson Reporting Company Official argument, maybe you could say a word about it, is           Section of the American ­­ America Invents Act.                      Under your ­­ under your reading, could      evidence of the failure to obtain or introduce advice of          counsel be used to prove that the defendant infringed in          bad faith?              MR. WALL: No. The patentee cannot put that          at issue affirmatively. All does is it dealt with           a ­­ that very narrow problem. And when the patentee           comes in and wants to show intent or recklessness, it          can point to your copying of the patent. It can point            to the fact that it gave you really extensive, very          detailed notice. It tried to license with you. You           didn't do anything. It cannot put at issue whether you           talked to counsel.                           Now, the defendant maybe ­­    JUSTICE ALITO: How do you get to that point          under the language of ?                 MR. WALL: Because just says when you're         proving of willfulness, whether it's a factor as it is           in our approach, whether it's the end­all, be­all as it          is in their approach, whenever the patentee is trying to          prove that up, you can't affirmatively put that at         issue.             And as Pulse candidly, and I think honestly,         Alderson Reporting Company Official concedes in its brief, you can read to have effect           on either side's view of the ­­ how you ought to treat            the enhancement statute. So I don't think cuts           either way.              And I would just stress for the Court that          Congress at the time looked at putting "willfully" in         the statute, and it looked at putting something        virtually identical to Seagate in the statute. It         didn't do either one, so I don't think it can be taken             to have ratified the Federal Circuit's current approach.                    CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, counsel.                   The case is submitted.                (Whereupon, at : a.m., the case in the        above­entitled matter was submitted.)    Alderson Reporting Company Official OfficialPage  A a.m : : : ability : : : able : :, anticipate : anticipated : advice : advocating : affirm : : anyone's : affirmatively : anyway : appeal : appeals : :, balances : bar : : : asking : : : : aspect : asserted : assess : : barrier : assessed : : barriers : assessment : :, : :, : : : afford : : :,, : afraid : : above­entitled : after­the­fact : aggravating : agree : : : : : :, absence : absolute : : absolutely : : abuse : : agreed­upon : agrees : : : accept : : :, :, ahead : akin : AL :,, Alexander : Alito :, : :, : : : : arbitrarily : :,,, :, : access : accommodates appropriate : : : account : :, APPEARANCES : : assistance : assume :, application : Assistant : applications : applied : apply : : applying : appreciate : approach :, : assumed : assumption : assumptions : assure : attaches : attends : attention : attorneys : :, attorneys' :, : : based : : : : : : : : : : : : basic : basically : basis : : : : : : : : :, be­all : bears : beginning : : behalf : : : :, : : : :, accurate : accused : acquiesced : act :, : : : acted : : acting : : action : : actions : activity : actor : :, : : actual :, : add : added : additional :, address : adequate : admit : : adopt : : : adopted :, : : allow : : : : : : : allowed : allowing : allows : : America :, : : American : amici : amicus : : : : : arbitrary : area : : : arguably : argued : argument : : automatic :, behavior : automatically : belief :,, avoids :, award : awarded : aware : belief's : believe : : : : : : :,, :, :, : : : : : :, : : : : B : :, : : : : B back : : : believes : benefit :, benefits : best : : amount : : arguments : : : analogy :, analysis : : : : : : analyze : analyzed : : ancillary : answer : :, : arising : art : articulate : : : articulated : : articulation : artificial : : :, : : aside : : : asked : : : : : : : bet : :,, back­end : backdrop : bad : : :, : : :,,, : : : bad­faith : : balance : : : better : : beyond : : : big : : : bit : : : : body : borne : : bound : bounds : Alderson Reporting Company Alderson Reporting Company Official changed : channel : : characteristics clearly :, close : come :, : Page  conclude : concluded : concrete : conduct : : CARTER : : box : : break :, : Breyer :, careful : carraigeware : carried : :,, :, carry : :, :, : : : : : : : :, :,, : : :,, : :,, :,, :, :, :,, : case :, : : chart : characterizations : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : :, :, : : :, :,,, : Chief :, : : : : : :, : :,, : conducted : : : : : : :, conducting : : : : : : : : :, : : :, conducts : :,, : coming : : confines : : : : : : : : : : : : : :, : :, : : : : : : :,, :, : : :, : comes : : :, : : : choice :, circuit :, : common : communications : : : : comfortable : commercially Congress : brief : : : : : : : briefs : : : :,, : : broader : brought : bucket :,, : : : buckets : : : : built : : bulk : burden : : : burdens : businesses : businessman : businessmen : C C : : call :, : : : : : called : calls : candidly : : candle : care : : cases : : : :,,, : : : : : : : : :, :, : :, : : :, : catch : categorical : :, categorically : category : caught : century : certain : : : certainly : : : cetera :, challenge : : : : challenged : : chances : : : change : : : : : :, :, : :, : :, : : : : :, : : circuit's : : : circumstance : circumstances : : : : :, : : : :, : : companies :, : : : company :, : :, :, company's : compensate : compensation : : consequence : consideration : considerations : considered : : consistent : : consolidated : compensatory : : competing : competitor : completely : context : : : : :,, : :, :, : : continued : cited : continuing : civil : claim : :, complexity : continuously : claim­construction compromising : contractor :, complex : : claims :, : clarify : class : classic : clear :, : : :,, : :, conceal : concealment : concede : concedes : concern : : : : concerned : : : concerns : contrary : convincing : : :,, : : copied :,, : copiers : copy : : :,, : Alderson Reporting Company Page  developed :, devices :, : doubt : : downside : drive : difference : : : : E differences :, E : :, defense : : different : : copying :, : :, :, : copyright : : core : corporate : Corporation : : : : correct :, : correctly : cost : cotton :, counsel : : : : :, : counsels : countering : country : couple : : course : court :, : crafting : craw : create : : created : creates : : creating : criminal : critical :,, criticism : cry : culpability : culpable :, : curiae : : : current : currently : cuts : D D : D.C :, :, damages : : Official decision : : : declared :, defendant : : : : :, : : : :, :, : : : : : : defenses : : : : : deferential : deferentially : define : : defined : defining : definition : : degree : deliberately : demonstrated : : : : : : :, : : :, : : differently : : direction :, : disagree : discount : discourages : discouraging : discretion :, : : : :,, : :, : :, :, : :, easy : : : : economy : edges : effect : : : : effective :, : efforts : eggshell : : egregious : : : :, : egregiousness :, either : : : : :, : elaborate : discretionary : Electronics :, :, :, : element : elementary : elements :, else's : embrace : embraces : empirical :, discussing : discussion : dismantle : dispute : dissertation : district :,, : : : : : :, : : : employment : :, : : :,, encompass : encourage : end­all : enforce : engineer :, engineers : : England : enhance : : :,, : : : : disturb : disturbing : doing : : dollars : : : : : : :, : Department : :,,,, : depending : :, : describe : : :, described : :,, : describing : : : : designed :, : : : :,, : desire : : : : : desperately : : : : : : : : :, : :, : : : : : : : : :, : : :,, : :, : :, : : :, :,, : : : : :,,,, day : :, destroying : detailed : : determination : : : : :,, : : daylight :, : : : de :, : dealing : : : dealt : debating : destroyed : : : : : courts :, : : : : : : : decide : : : decided : determinations : : determinative : court's : : courts' : covers :, : : : determine : deterrents : decidedly : Alderson Reporting Company Official : enhanced : : : : : :,, :, : :, : : : : : : :, : : : : enhancement : evidentiary : : evolved : exactly : : : : examined : : example : : : : : : facts : : : : : : : :, : : : : : : factual : failure : fair : fairly : : : faith : : : : fall :,, excellent : excited : exclusively : Excuse : exempt : fallen : exercise : :, far : : faulty : favor : : existence : favors : exists : experience : fear : : experienced : February : expert : : : Fed : Federal :, : : : : : :, :, : :, : : : : : :, : : : feel : fees : : :, : : fight :, figure : find : : : : expertise : : experts : explain : explicit : extend : extensive : extent : extraordinary : : F face : faced : facing : : fact : : :,, : : :,, : ensure : ensuring : entire : entirely : entities : : entitled : entity : entrench : entry : envision : equally : equities : equivalence : erect : escape : espionage : ESQ : :, : :,, essential : essentially : : : :, : : : : : establish : established : et :,, :, evaluate : event : : everybody's : evidence :, flaw : : flow : focus : : focused : follow : footnote : forget : : : form : forward : : : : : : : found : : : : : four : : framework : : free : friend : : : : front : full : : : Page  : : : : given : : gives : : giving :, : : go : : : : : : :, : : : : : : : goes : : : : : : going : : :, : :, :, : : : : : : :,, : :, : : : : : : : : : :, : :,, friends : frivolous : : good : : : fulsome : : further : G good­faith :, : : : : : G : : : : goods :, gee : Google : General : gotten : General's : government : generalized : generally : : : government's : : : great : : greater : Germany : getting : : grew : ground : guess : : guidance : : Ginsburg : : : : :, :, :, : give :, : :, guide : : guided : : : : German :, finding : finds : : : : : : : firm : : : :,, first : : : : : :, : : : : : : : : : : factor : : factors : : : : : : : Alderson Reporting Company H : : : history : :, : :,, : :,, : : ha :,, habit : half : Halo : : : : hoc :, :, holder : Hamilton : honestly : : Hand's : handed : : Honor : : happen : happened : Honors : hook : hope : : : happens : happy : : hard : : : harder : hardest : harm : harmed : head : hear : heard : heightened : : held : help : : : : helped : high : : :, : :, : : higher : Highmark : : : hindsight : hire : : : : hired : : : hires : historical : : historically : : : : : : horribles : huge : hump : hundreds : : hurt : I idea :, : identical : identifies :, identify : ignored : imagination : imagine : : : : immunized : importance : important : : :, : : : : impose : imposing : impossible : improve : inaction : incentive : incentives : : incentivizes : incentivizing : including : : Official incorporates : increase : : independent : independently : indifference : individual : industry : : : infer : : information : : :, : infringe : : : : : : : infringed : : : infringement : : :,, : :, :,, : : : : : : : : : : :, : :,, : : : infringer : : : : : : : : :, : : : : infringer's : infringers : : :, : :, infringing : : inherently : initial : : innovation : : inquiry : :, :, : :,, : insists : instance : : instances : : : intense : intent : : : : : : : : : : : : intentional : : :,, :,,, : :,, : intentionally : interest : interesting : : interpretation : interpreted : interpreting : introduce : invalid : : : :, : : : invalidity : : : invent : inventing : invention : : : Invents :, : : investigation : invoke : invoked : involved :, : : : involves : : involving : ironies : irrespective : issue : : : : : : : :,, issued : : issues : : Page  :, J jail : JEFFREY : : : : : Jones :, :, : judge : : : : judged :, judges : : :, : judging : judgment : : :, : : : jump : Justice : :, : :, : :, :, : : :,, :,,, : :, : :,,,,, :,,, : :,,, : :, :, : :, :, :,, :, :,,,, :, :,, :, :, :,, : : :,, : :,, :, :, :,, : :,, : :,, : :, :, :,,, : :,, :,,,, :,, : Alderson Reporting Company :,, : : :,, :, : :, : : : justification : justified : K Kagan : : : :,, :,, : : :, keep : : Kennedy :, : :, key : kill : kind : : : : : : : : :, : :,, : kinds : : : :, knew : : know :, : : : : : : : :, : : :, : : : :, : : : : :, : : : :, : : :,, :, knowing : knowledge : : : known : : : : knows : : L language : : :, : : large : : latitude : laughs : Laughter : : : law : :, : :,, : :,, : : : : :, : :, : lawyer : : : : : :, : lawyers : : : leaves : leaving : leeway : legal : : :, legitimate : : legitimately : lest : let's : : letter :,, : : : :, :, : : letters :, : : : : : : liability : : : libraries : :, little : : lawyers' : lead : : leading : : Learned : leave : : :, : living : long : : :, : : : Official library : license : : lies : life :, light : : lots : : low : Lumley :, M Page  mine : minor : : minutes : : mischaracterizat... : : machinery : main : major : : misconduct :, : :,, : limit : limitations : :, : limited : : making : : misread : mistake : limiting : limits : mistakes : line : lion's : litigating : litigation : : malicious : man :, : mixed : maps : modify : marked :, : moment : money : : : : :, : :, market : : : : : Martinez : : : : : : : :, monopolies : : :,, : : : : monopoly : :,, :, : : : moving : : : matter : : N : : : N :, : : : : narratives : longer : look : : matters : : max : narrow : national : nature :, : :, :, : : : : : : mean : : : : : : : : looked : : : : : : :, : : : :, : : : : : : : necessarily : :,, : nearly : : looking : : meaning : : need :, : : : : :, : : : : : : meanings : : means : : needs : : negligence :, : negligent :, : net : looks : : :, : : loophole : lot : : : metes : meant :, mere : : : : : million : : never : : :, : : :, : : : mind : : : : : millions : new : : :, : : : nice : : Alderson Reporting Company Official Page  : : party : pass : passed : : perception :, pending : people : : played : play : : : : : please : : : plucking : point : : : : : : : : : : : : : : :, :,, : : :, :, : : :,, : perfectly : patent : : : Petitioner : : : :, : : : :,,, period : : : :, person : : : : :, : : : :, :, person's : : : :, : : : :, :, Petitioner's : : :,, : : : :, :, :, :, Ph.D : : :, :, :, : : : :,, : : : : Phillips : : Petitioners :, pointed : : points : : police :, policy :,, : : :, :, possible : portion : : post : :, position :, : : : : : : :,, :, :,, : : :, :,, : :,, : :,,, :, :, :, :, : :, practice : :, :, pre­ : : :, precise : :,,,, :, :, preliminary : :, : : prelitigation : preparing : : : : present : : presentation : presented : presents : pretty : : patent's : : patent­damages­... : patentability : patented : :, : :, : : patentee : : : : : : :,, patentees : : patents : : :, :,, :, :, piece : : :, : : : pirate : : : : Pierce :, : nondeferentially : : : : nonfrivolous : nonpracticing : older : omniscience : once : : one­of­its­kind : one­sided : normal : normally : : ones : : notice : : : :, : notion : novo :, : null : number : : : numbers : O O : : objective :, open : opening : operate :, opinion : : : : : opinions : : opponent's : oral : :,, : : : order :, : : : : : : ordinarily : : : : ordinary : :, : ought : : :, : : :, : :, : : : outset : outside : : outweighs : overcompensated objectively : : : : : : : : obtain : obvious : obviously : : : : : : : overreacted : owner : owning : P P : occurred : : PAGE : occurring : occurs : octane : : : :, paid :, parade : part : : : : : odd : odds : offered : office : okay : : : : : : : particularly : :, : parties : : participating : pay :, : particular : path : : : peel : penalties : : penalty : pirates : : :,, : :, : : : place : plaintiff : : price : previously : : plaintiffs : plaintiffs' : primarily : principle : principles : Alderson Reporting Company : prior : probability : probably : problem : : : : : : : : Punitives : purely : : : :, :, : : purpose : : : purposes : : process : : : : producer : producing : product : : :, : : :, : :,, :, : : put : : : :, : : : : :,, puts : putting :, Q qualify : products : : question : : Official regime : : : : : : : released : : : : relevant : : : reap : : reason : :, remains : remaining : : : : :,,,, : remember : : repeated : repeatedly : : report : requirement : reasonable : : :,, : :, : : : :, : : : : : : : : : : resolve : :,, : reserve : resistance : : resolves :, respect : : Page  : : : : : : : : : : rightly : rights : rigid : rigorous : risk :, : : : : :,, : : : : risks : ROBERTS : :, : : : :, : : :, :,, : : : : :, : : : : : :, : reasonableness : reasonably : : : questionable : reasons : questions : REBUTTAL : : : : quickly : quite : : quoted : : reckless : : recall : receive : : : responded : Respondents : role : : : rolling : : : : ROMAN : : : : Respondents' royalty : : : : Rubber : : response : : :, :, : Professor : profits : prong : proof : proper : properly : protect : protecting :, protection : : protects : prove : : :, reversed : review : :, Safeco : :, S : : R R : raft :, raise : : raised : ratified : rest : result : : : : :, : : : recklessness : : : : : : : :, :, reverse : : : : : : : : : : : : : retroactively : return : : : : : :, reviewed : provide : : : : : reached : proving : PTO : : : read : : : : : PTO's : public : pulls : Pulse : : : punish :, punishment : punitive :, : : : reading : : real : : : reality : realize : : really : : : :,, recognize : recognizing : refer : referred : reflect : reflected : : refusal : : rich : right : : : :,, : : : : : : :,,, Alderson Reporting Company rule : :, : :, ruling : run : : : : : : running : S : :, sanctions : satisfied : satisfy :, : saw : : saying : : :, : : : says :, : : :, Official Solicitor : : solve : somebody : : : : statement : States :, : : : : :, : : sort : : : sorry :, : statute : : : : : : :, :, : : : : supposed :, :,, : : : : suppose : : : : :,, : SG :, : scope : scours : se : Seagate : : : :,, :,,, : : : :, : : Seagate's : search :, searches : second : : : : : : : Section : :, : :,, : : : see :, : : : : : : : : :, : : seeing : : seen :, : sell :, selling : : : sells : semantic : semantics : send : sends : sense : : share : : shares : shoes :, show : : :,,,, : : : : showing : shown : shows : side : : : :,, side's : : sides : significant : : : situation : : :, : : : situations : : skew : skewed : : skews : skull : sky : slight : slightly : small : : smaller : : :, : : : : sensible : sent : : separate : : serious : :, Smith : : seriously : services : : set : : : severity :, Seymour : softwares : solely : software : :,,, : Page  suggesting : suggests : : suitable : summarize : supported : supporting : : Supreme :, sure : :, : : : : : surprising : swung : system : : T T :, table : : take : :, :, : : : : :, :, : : : taken : : : : takes : : : : talked : : : talking : : : : : : : talks : : tangent : tell : : tells : tens : : : term : terms : : : terrible : test :, : source : silence : silent : sources : similar : : special : similarly : specific : simple : simply : : : : statute's : statutory : steam­engine : Sotomayor : :,,,, :,,, : : :,, : :, :, :, step : : :,, : stick : : : stifled : strategy :, strength : : : : stress : stretch : strict : stripped : : strong : structure : Stryker : : : : : specifications : squarely : stage : stand : standard :, : : : : :, :,, : :, : : : : : : : :,, : : :,, :, :, subjectively : : : : submitted :, : :,,, : :, : : : : stuff : subject : : subjective : : substance : substantial :, standards : : stands : start : : start­up : state : : : stated :, : : substantially : succeeded : Suddenly : sued :, sufficient : suggest : Alderson Reporting Company : :,, : :, : : : : :, : : : third : : :,, : thorough : thought :, testing : tests : : text : :, : Thank : : : : : : :, : : :, :, : : : : : thousand : thousands : theory : thing :, : :,,, :, :,, : : : tried : : : : trigger : trolls : :, : true : : : : Official tremendously :, : want :, : Page  : trenches : trial : : : unreasonable : unlawful : : unnecessary : : : : : :, : : : : : : unsuccessful : wanted : : unusual : urge : use : : wanton : wants : : : : : :,, uses : Usually : V warrant : : warranted : warrants : Washington : : :, v :, :, : wasn't :,, valid : : : :, :, : : : : way : : : validity : : : : : : three : : : :, : :, : : : trying : : things : : : : : : : : tighten : time : : : Tuesday : truth : try : : :, : : : : : : : : :, : : :,, : : : : : :, :,, : : :,, : :, : : : : : various : times : : today : Today's : told : twofold : types :, typical :, : : : : : : : : : turn : turned : turns : : two : : : vast : :, : : : :,, :, :, : : :, :, :, : : : :,, : : : : think :, : :, :,, : : :, : : : :, :, :,, : :,,, :, :,, :, :, :,,,, : :, :,,,,, :,,, :, tort : : : :, :,,,, : : :,,,, tortfeasor's : :, : totality :, : understands : Wall : :, :,, : : :, : : totally : :,, : :,,, : touchstone : track : :,, : traditional : : : :, traditionally : unfortunate : :, : : :, treat : : treated : : :, :,, : treble : uncertain : undermines : understand : unicorns : United :, : : : : Underwood : unenforceable Underwater : : : : : : W U ways : : version : : versus : : view : : : :,, : : viewed : violating : we'll : : : violation :, we're :, : virtually : :, :, : : : : : : : : : : : : void : we've : : : weak : : : went : : whatsoever : :,, : : :,, :, wears : :,,, :, :, :,,,, : :,, wheels : : :,, whim :, : : : willful : : :, :, : : : : Alderson Reporting Company Page  Official : : : :, : : : : willfully :, : : willfulness :, : :, : :, : :,,,, : : : : :,,, :,, : : : willing : win : withholding : word : : :,,, : : : : words : : : work : : : works : : world :, : :, : :, worried : : : worry :, : worse : worst : : : worth :, : wouldn't : wrecking : written : wrong :, : : :, : : : :, wrongdoing : X x :,,, Y Yahoo : Yeah : : years : : : : : Z Zimmer : : : : : : :, : Zimmer's : : , :, : : : , :, : : : : ­ : : ­ : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : :, : :, : :,,, : : Alderson Reporting Company 