Official         IN THE SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES       ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ x                                  CAMPBELL­EWALD COMPANY,             :             Petitioner                : No. ­         v.                          JOSE GOMEZ.                         : : ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ x                                                         Washington, D.C.                         Wednesday, October ,                  The above­entitled matter came on for oral       argument before the Supreme Court of the United States         at : a.m.   APPEARANCES: GREGORY G. GARRE, ESQ., Bethesda, Md.; on behalf of            Petitioner. JONATHAN F. MITCHELL, ESQ., Stanford, Cal.; on behalf of            Respondent. ANTHONY A. YANG, ESQ., Assistant to the Solicitor              General, Department of Justice, Washington, D.C.; on       behalf of United States, as amicus curiae,          supporting Respondent.  Alderson Reporting Company Official                                    C O N T E N T S ORAL ARGUMENT OF                                      PAGE GREGORY G. GARRE, ESQ.       On behalf of the Petitioner                           ORAL ARGUMENT OF   JONATHAN F. MITCHELL, ESQ.       On behalf of the Respondent                           ORAL ARGUMENT OF   ANTHONY A. YANG, ESQ.       On behalf of the United States, as amicus            curiae, supporting the Respondent                     REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF   GREGORY G. GARRE, ESQ.       On behalf of the Petitioner                            Alderson Reporting Company Official                                       P R O C E E D I N G S                                        (: a.m.)              CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: We'll hear argument       first this morning in Case ­, Campbell­Ewald       Company v. Gomez.               Mr. Garre.             ORAL ARGUMENT OF GREGORY G. GARRE                    ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONER                 MR. GARRE: Thank you, Mr. Chief Justice,        and may it please the Court:                  To affirm the Ninth Circuit on the first two         questions presented, this Court must accept the       following two propositions:               First, a plaintiff can force a court to          adjudicate the merits of his claim simply by refusing         the defendant's offer of capitulation and complete       relief.             And, second, that a plaintiff has what        amounts to a substantive right to class litigation that          applies as soon as the complaint is filed and that          entitles the case to proceed even if his individual         claim drops out before ­­                JUSTICE SCALIA: Is there any controversy       over whether the ­­ the ­­ the offer is complete relief?                       MR. GARRE: I don't think so, Your Honor.          Alderson Reporting Company Official The district court found that it was at page of the            Petition Appendix. The Ninth Circuit decided this case         based on that premise. That's at page a of the           Petition Appendix.                          So I think as the case comes ­­        JUSTICE SCALIA: Do we take it on that         assumption, too?                          MR. GARRE: I think you should, Your Honor.          Now ­­ now, they have argued below that the         only reason that it wasn't for complete relief was that          ­­ because it didn't provide for attorneys' fees. But          the TCPA, the underlying statute here, does not provide         for attorneys' fees.               JUSTICE KAGAN: But that's a merits question         as to whether they're entitled to attorneys' fees. If          the question is complete ­­ you know, "complete relief"         means what the plaintiff has asked for. The plaintiff          has asked for attorneys' fees here.                  MR. GARRE: I don't think that's what         "complete relief" means, Your Honor. I think it means           that the plaintiff has received everything that he        could ­­ that he could if he received a judgment in this             ­­ in his favor ­­                JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Well, he would ­­ he        would receive a finding of liability, which you didn't          Alderson Reporting Company Official admit in your offer.                            MR. GARRE: He ­­ I ­­       JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: He would ­­ he would be         entitled to an injunction against that activity, the        activity that caused this particular situation, and if        others were shown, to an injunction in other ways.                     So I don't see how this could be ­­ putting           aside the class action, putting aside the attorneys'        fees, those appear to me to be fairly critical liability          determinations that were not made by the court below.                     MR. GARRE: Okay. First, as the case comes          to the Court, I think it is accepted that the offer was             for complete relief.               raise.             Now let me try to answer the points that you          First, he's not entitled to a finding of         liability. If a litigant was always entitled to a           finding of liability, then essentially no case could        become moot. If you take the voluntary cessation         context, a litigant could always insist that he's still          entitled to the finding of liability.                  JUSTICE KENNEDY: It ­­ it seems that you         want us to write an ­­ an opinion saying that a           settlement offer is equivalent to a judgment. And we've           had cases, like the Kokkonen case, in which there was a           Alderson Reporting Company Official settlement approved by the court, case dismissed, then        the settlement was not performed. They went to court          seeking an injunction. The court said, no, no. You           have a contract. You have to file again. You have to              go into a different court. You have to start all over             again.               A settlement offer and a settlement contract       and a settlement agreement are different from a         judgment, and you do not have a judgment.                     MR. GARRE: Well, Your Honor, I think that          the accepted principle is that a settlement moots the          case and requires the court to dispose of the case. I            mean, I think that's the accepted principle. And ­­                      JUSTICE KENNEDY: But you didn't pursue       that. You didn't apply under the rules for a judgment.                        MR. GARRE: Well ­­                JUSTICE KENNEDY: And ­­ and ­­ and if you          want us to write an opinion and say, oh, well, a           settlement offer is the same as a judgment, that just           doesn't accord with the Federal Rules of Civil Procedure         or with our cases like the Kokkonen case.                    MR. GARRE: Well, Your Honor, I think ­­ I           think this case is consistent with the Kokkonen case.         What the Kokkonen case recognized is that, once a case           has come to an end, the Court has ancillary jurisdiction          Alderson Reporting Company Official to dispose of it. In that case it dealt with the            enforcement of a consent decree.                              Here our fundamental ­­   JUSTICE GINSBURG: But the Federal rule in        point, Mr. Garre ­­ and it says ­­ Rule says an offer             of judgment expires automatically after days if it's         not accepted. It is deemed withdrawn, and it cannot be           used for any purpose other than to saddle the plaintiff          with costs if she doesn't get more than the offer.                      So we have a Federal rule directly in point,          and that instructs litigants what an offer of judgment         means. Why do we look any further than that?                      MR. GARRE: Well, first, Your Honor, this        case, there was not only the Rule offer of judgment,           but a freestanding settlement offer. So we think that           the mechanics of Rule don't apply here. It's ­­                      JUSTICE GINSBURG: Well, isn't that rather       an end run around the offer of judgment?                    MR. GARRE: Well, I don't ­­ I don't think            so. I mean, it still presents the question of whether            the controversy still exists given that the defendant        has offered the plaintiff everything that he ­­ he could          secure through a Federal judgment.                  JUSTICE GINSBURG: The plaintiff ­­ the       plaintiff asks for class action, didn't get that because         Alderson Reporting Company Official they weren't far ­­ far along enough for the plaintiff          even to move for certification.                 MR. GARRE: And the plaintiff in Genesis        Healthcare asked for a collective action. The Court          found that that allegation did not ­­                  JUSTICE GINSBURG: But the collective action       is simply a device for permissive joinder. It's quite           different, as Genesis recognized.                Class action ­­ I don't remember Justice        Thomas' exact words, but it's a whole different kettle          of fish.              MR. GARRE: Well, I mean, here's how I think            it's different, Your Honor.                You're right. It is different. But it's         different in that this Court has repeatedly said that         the class has no independent legal status until it's         certified. And it's different in that, in Genesis         Healthcare, you had a statutory right to a collective           action, but the Court said that that didn't trump         Article III.                          And here you just ­­    JUSTICE GINSBURG: All it ­­ all it is ­­         it's an invitation to people to join you. That's all ­­           all that ­­ it's a permissive joinder.                    MR. GARRE: Well, it was still pretty        Alderson Reporting Company Official important to the plaintiff in that case, and it was a           statutory right.              And here the question is: When the        individual claim drops out, is there any basis for the          action to proceed simply so that, on the ­­ on the           potential that a class could be certified?                    potential.             JUSTICE GINSBURG: One ­­ one is ­­ is that          The other is, it's not that I would be          entitled to attorneys' fees from the loser, but if         there's a class, then there are a lot of other people             who will share in the attorneys' fees and I'll have to           pay less.              MR. GARRE: And that ­­ that's the        cost­sharing argument that was made in Roper.                   that.             And if I could say a couple things about           First, the plaintiff in this case, unlike       the plaintiff in Roper, never made that argument below.         He never argued in favor of cost sharing. In fact, the            complaint, if you look on page of the Joint Appendix,           touts that he has all the financial resources necessary         to bring this action.                Second of all, in Roper the Court relied on         that interest solely for the purpose of allowing the         Alderson Reporting Company Official appeal from the denial of certification when the mooting         event occurred after the denial of certification.                   So there you had a real relation back issue.          If the Court had been wrong in denying certification,         then the case never would have become moot in the first           place.             Here, the mooting event takes place before       certification. There's nothing to relate back to.                    JUSTICE KAGAN: But if I could go back a           little bit, Mr. Garre. And this is, I think, the            question that Justice Scalia started with.                  There are a number of things that you've         said, well, he asked for it, but he's not entitled to           it. He asked for attorneys' fees, but he's not entitled           to attorneys' fees. And he asked for an injunction or           declaratory relief, and he's not entitled to that. And          he asked for class certification, but he's not entitled         to that, and so the case is moot.                    And the "so the case is moot" seems to me to           be a non sequitur. In other words, he's asked for these             things, you haven't offered these things, and there's a         dispute about whether he's entitled to these things.                    Now, you might be completely right as to        that, "He's not entitled to attorneys' fees." But that          has to be adjudicated. You can't ­­ a court can't just             Alderson Reporting Company Official say, oh, you've offered complete relief, because in his         view you haven't offered complete relief, and that's        what the litigation is all about.                  MR. GARRE: And a court can make that          determination, just like a court can determine whether         or not a defendant who says he's going to stop his            action has truly voluntarily ceased his action.                   JUSTICE KAGAN: A court can absolutely make         that determination. But the question is: Does the          court make that determination in the guise of a mootness           motion?             MR. GARRE: Well, I think it absolutely         does, just like it would in the voluntary cessation         context.               I ­­ I want to be clear because I think we            have a little bit of a ­­                    JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Why can't it ­­ why        can't it do that in the context of a summary judgment            motion? I mean, why does it have to moot the case?             Wouldn't the appropriate vehicle be a summary judgment         motion in which you admit the facts that make you          liable, or you concede the facts that make you liable,          and then you fight about the legal questions?                    MR. GARRE: The ­­ the reason is, when ­­         when one party throws in the towel, the match is over.           Alderson Reporting Company Official             Here, the question is whether there's an       Article III case or controversy when the defendant is no          longer fighting over the result as to the thing at          issue. That's ­­ those are the words that the Court           used in the San Pablo case. That's an Article III           determination.             JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: But I ­­ but what's an          Article III determination is whether he or it or she is           entitled to the relief that they asked for. May well be            they're not.                          MR. GARRE: And functionally ­­     JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: But they're entitled to       have the court say it, not you.                   MR. GARRE: A ­­ a court can certainly make            the determination of whether or not they have provided         complete relief. In a case like this where you're           dealing with liquidated damages, that's easy.                  It's just ­­              JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: By the way, you called        this a "freestanding offer," but I have it right here,            and the ­­ offer says, "Offer of judgment pursuant to          Federal Rule of Civil Procedure ."                  This was your client's submission.                 MR. GARRE: No ­­ well, you're right, Your         Honor. That's the Rule offer. If you go on page a              Alderson Reporting Company Official of the Petition Appendix, there's the freestanding       settlement offer, which isn't a Rule offer.                     The other thing about Rule is it's really         not designed for the situation of complete relief. It's          designed for the situation where the defendant and        plaintiff have to gamble, essentially, over whether or        not an offer for less than complete relief is a          sufficient ­­ they ­­ they want to settle on that basis.                       In this case you had a freestanding        settlement offer. It provided for complete relief, and         so the question is whether or not the ­­ the plaintiff           had a personal stake in the case sufficient ­­ in the            outcome of the case sufficient to keep this case alive.                      Justice Kennedy, to get back to your point        about settlement ­­ and I think what's important to          recognize here is ­­ here's our position: When the          offer of complete relief is made and when a court has            determined that it is, indeed, for complete relief, then         the case has to come to an end. Now, whether you say             it's ­­ it's moot at that precise moment or whether you           say it starts the ball rolling down the hill towards a           dismissal or entry of judgment for the plaintiff based         on the terms of the offer, the point is ­­ is that when             the defendant has offered everything, the courts can't        go ahead and expound on the law.       Alderson Reporting Company Official             Now, this Court has repeatedly said, when       it's not necessary to decide, it's necessary not to         decide. And that's the fundamental principle at stake         here. Defendant has offered everything, and the        plaintiff ­­             JUSTICE KENNEDY: Suppose one day after the        offer the defendant defaulted. Would a case that's now           ­­ was once moot now become non­moot?                   MR. GARRE: Well, and that would be an         unusual situation if it did, Your Honor. I think ­­                       JUSTICE KENNEDY: It happened in Kokkonen.       We had a case on it here in the Court.                       MR. GARRE: And ­­ and ­­ you know, Roper's          another case where there was an offer that the Court          never ­­ it didn't really question in that case whether          the offer mooted the claim on the merits. The only           question was whether they could appeal the denial of         certification. Here the plaintiff's position is asking        this Court to go far beyond what the Court recognized in           Roper and really to recognize a substantive right to          class adjudication. At the end of the day, that's what           they're insisting on. As soon as they filed their class           complaint ­­             JUSTICE GINSBURG: A substantive ­­ how        about a procedural right to litigate entitlement to         Alderson Reporting Company Official class status?              MR. GARRE: I ­­ I don't think you can            describe it as a procedural right. This Court has said            that Rule is a procedural mechanism. When the           requirements are met, it said that there's no separate         legal status for the class until the class is certified.          In the Jacobs ­­               JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: So why is it that we         permit relation back at all ­­                 MR. GARRE: Well.                JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: ­­ if ­­ if we have         cases that say when a case has become moot in the middle             of the litigation, it can relate back to the beginning?                      MR. GARRE: Okay. Well, first of all ­­                     JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: If mootness is mootness,       mootness is mootness, right?                MR. GARRE: Yes. First of all, the Court          has recognized two narrow exceptions, Your Honor. First         is an appeal from the denial of class certification when          the mooting event happens while a case is on appeal.           That's the Roper case. And the second is the inherently           transitory exception.              Now, it's not even clear that the       Respondents are asking for either exception, because I        don't see "relation back" or "inherently transitory" in        Alderson Reporting Company Official their red brief. But it's clear that the first          exception doesn't apply because this case doesn't       involve an appeal from the denial of class        certification, and it's clear that the second case        exception doesn't apply, "inherently transitory,"     because in Genesis, this Court made clear that the         concern of the so­called picking off wasn't a sufficient          basis to say that a claim was inherently transitory.          That exception doesn't deal with the defendant's       litigation conduct; it deals with whether the claimant's        conduct is going to recur, like a pretrial temporary          detention situation. This case doesn't fit into this ­­         that exception at all. What ­­                  JUSTICE ALITO: What if the ­­ what if the          defendant ­­ I ­­ did you finish your answer?                                  MR. GARRE: Yes, Your Honor.      JUSTICE ALITO: What if the defendant has        very shaky finances, maybe on the verge of bankruptcy,         or has a history of reneging on promises, and ­­ but            the ­­ the offer to provide full relief moots the case,           even in that situation?                MR. GARRE: So a ­­ a couple answers to            that, Your Honor. First, that's not an issue in this           case. They've never disputed Campbell­Ewald's ability       to pay. Second of all, I think a court can determine              Alderson Reporting Company Official that the plaintiff ­­ the defendant is ready and able to           pay. And third of all, in the situation where the case            is dismissed for mootness based on the terms of the          offer and then it turns out that they can't execute the           offer ­­ I mean, that's a situation where the court ­­            the plaintiff can go back to the court and say, you           based ­­ you ­­ you dismissed the case on an erroneous           factual premise. That's like the Judge Friendly        decision that we cite in our reply brief. So that           situation is not going to happen.                  And all of these practical concerns are       going to go away if this Court recognizes in this case           that a defendant's offer of complete relief ends any          case or controversy over the individual claim. The case          goes away. The plaintiffs are going to accept the          offer.             JUSTICE KENNEDY: Can the offer of complete        relief from a solvent defendant where it looks like the           relief will be forthcoming, if ­­ if you lose this case           and so the case is not moot, could still be considered           as a factor in the court's decision whether or not to            certify the class?               MR. GARRE: I don't think ­­ it certainly          wouldn't be a classic certification decision factor,        Your Honor. And I think ­­­ I mean, one of the reasons               Alderson Reporting Company Official why the court insists on an Article III case or          controversy is that it wants to insist that it doesn't          expound on the law, but ­­                 JUSTICE KENNEDY: In other words, the class        certification goes along without reference to whether       the lead plaintiff has any injury any longer?                    MR. GARRE: Well, it's a ­­ it's certainly a           very unusual situation where the personal representative       has been made whole. Now ­­ now, there's some claims ­­                       JUSTICE KENNEDY: That's why I asked if the          trial judge could, in his discretion, consider that as a          factor in certifying or not certifying ­­                  MR. GARRE: Well, I suppose that he could in           terms of the person represented, but the real question         is: Why would you want a court to expound on the law              difficult questions about certification, as this Court       knows as well as anyone, when there's no case or          controversy to begin with, when the defendant has        offered the plaintiff everything? And then the question         is: If his individual claim drops out, what         interests ­­ to put it in Judge Friendly's terms, what          interest does a ­­ does a plaintiff have ­­                      JUSTICE GINSBURG: You keep referring, but       you ­­ multiple times in your brief and now twice ­­ but            in the case that Judge Friendly dealt with, the class          Alderson Reporting Company Official claims had already been done and dispensed with,        distinguished, extinguished. So it wasn't a case of a           class certification not yet ruled on; it was ruled on.          The class action was out of the case. It was only the             individual.             MR. GARRE: Well, you're right, Your Honor,        about that distinction, but I think what Judge Friendly          said applies equally here, which is that when a         plaintiff loses his individual interests in the case, he         has no ­­ no right to ­­ to litigate on a class action              because it might benefit others.                 He also pointed out that the offer of        complete relief in this case, in this kind of situation,          puts the plaintiff in a better position than a default            judgment. The plaintiff has everything that he asks         for. He's walking away with the money.                    And to your point earlier, Justice      Sotomayor, just to be clear, the offer in this case          included a stipulation to an injunction as well. So           that ­­             JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: But that's for future       conduct, not ­­ not directed to the conduct ­­ the          direct conduct at issue here. But I ­­                     MR. GARRE: Well if ­­ you can't undo past          conduct. Alderson Reporting Company Official             JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: I ­­ I ­­ you know, I            looked at the three railroad cases that you cited as          proof that this has always been the case, but do you           have anything besides those things? In the common law,          I can't find any situation in which a court accepted a            offer that wasn't accepted by the party. In the          railroad cases, what they found was that an offer was          made and the other side, by taking money, accepted the          offer.                         MR. GARRE: No, but ­­     JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Have you found any case        in the common law that ­­ where there was an offer that            was unaccepted, was entered by the court?                   MR. GARRE: Well, three responses to that.        First, in the San Pablo case, for example, the court's          decision specifically makes clear that the plaintiff       refused that offer.               Second of all ­­               JUSTICE GINSBURG: But you've had to ­­ you         had to deposit the money in an account in the name of            the plaintiff. And San Pablo turned on a provision of            the California Civil Code that said an obligation for         payment is extinguished, is extinguished by an offer of         payment, if the money is immediately deposited in a         reputable bank in the name of a creditor.         Alderson Reporting Company Official             MR. GARRE: That's ­­ that's, of course,        right, Your Honor. But, of course, if acceptance was          the rule, then it's a little bit odd that the court            didn't mention the fact that he didn't accept it at all.                       The other point I wanted to make in response          to Justice Sotomayor's question is: We cited a long           footnote in our opening brief that has many cases         recognizing this principle, and in our reply brief, we         cite the holding case out of the English courts. It's           an case, and that case is exactly on point. It            involved a situation where a claim was brought for a            debt, the defendant came in and said, here's your money,          and the court in that case ­­ the plaintiff refused to           accept it. And the court in that case said it had a             beholden duty to end the case, given that the ­­ the           defendant had offered everything that the ­­                                          JUSTICE KAGAN: But Mr. Garre ­­      MR. GARRE: ­­ plaintiff was seeking.       JUSTICE KAGAN: ­­ and this is very much         along the same lines ­­ you know, you ­­ you have an old             English case. You have these three cases in the 's,           s, which were really about liabilities had ­­ that         had already been satisfied, and the court said, it's         already been satisfied, payment has already been made.        But there's really no history at all ­­ and tender          Alderson Reporting Company Official offers have existed for a long, long time.                     There's no history at all of ­­ of saying         that a tender offer moots a case, as opposed to the             classic understanding, the common law understanding, of       tender offers was that it created an incentive for         parties, and that that was their purpose and that was          their effect, was to incentivize parties to do        something, but not to ­­ for ­­ not to provide a           mechanism for a court just to throw out a case when a              party decided that, for whatever reason, he thought that         the tender offer was not good enough.                   MR. GARRE: So I think first ­­ just a           quibble ­­ I do think there's a longstanding practice of            recognizing that when the defendant has been offered        everything he could secure, the case goes away.                    Second of all, and I think, you know, maybe          more important: I mean, I would say that your dissent             in Genesis Healthcare itself ­­ itself recognizes that        acceptance can't be the rule in all cases. I mean, you             recognize in the situation where the plaintiff doesn't        accept for obstinacy or madness, but once you're there,         you recognize that acceptance can't be the rule. And          that's got to be right, because in the voluntary         cessation context, we don't require the plaintiff to        accept that.  Alderson Reporting Company Official             JUSTICE KAGAN: Well, but I ­­ I said that            mootness is not the appropriate remedy in that case.                     The appropriate remedy in a case where it's         absolutely clear that ­­ that the ­­ that the defendant          has given ­­ has offered the plaintiff everything the         plaintiff has asked for, which it's not in this case,          but where it's absolutely clear, where the defendant has         offered everything that the plaintiff himself has asked        for, the appropriate thing to do, in order to prevent          wasteful litigation, is not to dismiss the case for         mootness, but to grant judgment in favor of the         plaintiff.             MR. GARRE: And ­­ and I think here ­­ I            mean, once we're at the point where we realize this case           can't ­­ can't go on any further because he's been          offered everything as the case comes to this Court, then          the ­­ then the question for the Court is, well, how do            we dispose of it? Do we tell the lower court to dismiss             it as moot, or do we tell the lower court to enter            judgment for plaintiff based on the terms of the offer,          at which point it clearly becomes moot?                     I mean, this Court ­­               JUSTICE KAGAN: Well, it doesn't become       moot. It's just been decided. It's ­­ there's been an            adjudication at that point.    Alderson Reporting Company Official MR. GARRE: No, there hasn't been ­­       JUSTICE KAGAN: There's nothing to dismiss.       MR. GARRE: There hasn't been an                                           adjudication, Your Honor. It's judgment entered based        on the terms of the offer. It's not a judgment            adjudicating the claim on the merits. It's not a          judgment where the Court is picking a winner or loser.           The Court is simply recognizing the fact that the         defendant has offered everything and a judgment is         entered ­­             JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Mr. Garre, the only way        that I see a court entering judgment in the Federal            Rules of Civil Procedure is a Rule judgment.                      Someone moves and says, you got everything       you're entitled to. The other side comes back and says,           no, I'm entitled to attorneys' fees, I'm entitled to         whatever. And the court says, no, you're not; this is a            full satisfaction; I enter judgment.                    I don't know why we have to make a merits          determination based solely on an unaccepted offer of        judgment.             MR. GARRE: Well, first of all, a judgment          is just technically an order disposing of the case. I           mean, we went back and looked, and you yourself as a           district court judge issued judgments in cases where you         Alderson Reporting Company Official dismissed it as moot. It just reflects that the case           has come to an end.                   Second of all, what we've recognized as an      alternative position is the Sixth Circuit position here,        which is that ­­ that in this situation you can dispose           of the case by entering judgment for plaintiff based on          the terms of the offer. That's not a judgment on the             merits because it's not adjudicating the claim on the         merits.             It's not picking a winner, not involving the         court picking a winner ­­ a loser or winner, and it             resolves all of the hypothetical concerns that they've        raised about eliminating the case before they actually        have the check in hand. And that's ­­ that's an           appropriate way of disposing of this case. And no one           can argue that there's an Article III interest in ­­ in           proceeding with the litigation once they have a judgment          disposing of the case.                            And we're back to ­­    JUSTICE GINSBURG: What do you do with the         pleading rules that say payment and accord and        satisfaction are affirmative defenses?                MR. GARRE: Your Honor, those are ­­ those         are ­­ accord and satisfaction, for example, is a         contract­based doctrine. It happens where ­­ where        Alderson Reporting Company Official payment is made before the case gets to litigation.         There's ­­ there's no principle.                 Once the ­­ once the litigation begins, the        principle that controls is Article III. Article III's         case and controversy requirement requires that the       plaintiff had a ­­ have a personal stake, a live             personal stake in the outcome of the case at all stages           of the proceeding.               And on the first question, our point is that         once you've been offered everything you could receive ­­        and again, that's how the case comes here, and he has           been offered everything that he could get through a         favorable judgment on his individual claim ­­ there's no         longer a personal stake in litigating that case to the           outcome ­­             JUSTICE GINSBURG: What about the personal       stake that a would­be class representative has in         getting a bonus or an ­­                  MR. GARRE: Just as was true in Genesis         Healthcare, the would­be class representative is in the        same exact position he was before this case goes away,          because he can still file his own claim. He can settle            that claim. He can provide ­­ he can file his own class             action.             And you know, here, what we're arguing about        Alderson Reporting Company Official is policy arguments about whether or not the Court ought          to find some basis to keep the class action alive.                                  JUSTICE GINSBURG: That's ­­    MR. GARRE: That's not an appropriate       determination of Article III.                JUSTICE GINSBURG: How could he file a class          action on your theory? That's what he wanted to do, and            he was stopped very early on by this offer of judgment.                       MR. GARRE: Well, this ­­ this gets to the          concern of, these sorts of class actions are going to go           away.             First of all, it's ­­ it's hard to feel too          sorry about the plaintiffs who have everything that they         could possibly ask for when we're talking about absent         people. As a practical matter in these sorts of class            actions, what they get is pennies on the dollars of          their claim. The big money goes to the class action           lawyers here.              All of this can be addressed if Congress        wants to address it by addressing these policy concerns.                     JUSTICE KAGAN: Mr. Garre, both sides have        these class action policy arguments, but it's important        not to let those drive this pretty technical mootness         question. So if we could just take the class action           arguments out of it.    Alderson Reporting Company Official             Just let's say that there's a plaintiff, and         he claims , ­­ he wants $, plus attorneys'         fees, okay? And the defendant says, I'll give you          $,.             And the plaintiff says, no, I really want         attorneys' fees, too. And the defendant says, no,         you're not entitled to attorneys' fees. Plaintiff says,         no, I think I am. I'll ­­ I think I ­­ I'm going to                   reject your settlement offer.                So you say at that point the court can come          in and say, oh, the case is moot.                                            Now, how is that possible?     MR. GARRE: Well, in the same ­­       JUSTICE KAGAN: There's a ­­ there's a         contested question as to what one person owes another.         The ­­ the defendant has said he doesn't want to accept           this offer because he doesn't think it gives him         everything that's entitled ­­ he's entitled to. And the          measure of complete relief has to be, at this stage,          about what his complaint asks for.                  MR. GARRE: It's just like the voluntary        cessation context, Your Honor.                            In that case ­­   JUSTICE SCALIA: Well, I suppose he could         ask for the key to Fort Knox, right?        Alderson Reporting Company Official MR. GARRE: He ­­    JUSTICE SCALIA: And then ­­ and then no ­­                                 no settlement offer would ­­ would suffice, right?                    MR. GARRE: He could ask for a unicorn, Your           Honor. The point ­­                            the case ­­  JUSTICE SCALIA: He could ask for a unicorn.          JUSTICE KAGAN: Well, then you would reject                                            JUSTICE SCALIA: Certainly ­­    JUSTICE KAGAN: ­­ on the merits.       JUSTICE SCALIA: Don't you ­­ don't you        think the court ­­               JUSTICE KAGAN: There's a very ­­ there's a          very easy response to this, which is: If it's          frivolous, if it's trivial, you dismiss the case on the          merits.             MR. GARRE: The court can make that        determination. And you'd want it to make that         determination before it went ahead and adjuted the claim         on the merits, whether it's ­­ it's deciding difficult         questions on certification, whether it's going ahead and        making law in TCPA, whether it's going ahead and making          law in an immunity ­­                JUSTICE SCALIA: If it's a frivolous claim,         I don't see why the Court can't dispose of that          Alderson Reporting Company Official MR. GARRE: They can dispose of it ­­        JUSTICE SCALIA: ­­ in connection with the        MR. GARRE: The court can make that mootness         initially ­­                         mootness ­­             determination. It does in every other context in which          mootness arise. And Article III wants the court to make           that determination before the court goes on and expounds         on the law.               of my time.               If I could return ­­ reserve the remainder         CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, counsel.                   Mr. Mitchell.            ORAL ARGUMENT OF JONATHAN F. MITCHELL                     ON BEHALF OF THE RESPONDENT                 MR. MITCHELL: Mr. Chief Justice, and may it         please the Court:               Campbell­Ewald's mootness argument fails    because an offer of complete relief cannot render a case           moot. At most, the offer might justify a forced entry            of judgment, but not a jurisdictional dismissal.                                Even though ­­  CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: If there's no ­­ if         you're getting everything you want, what is the case or          controversy? What is the live dispute in which you have           Alderson Reporting Company Official a personal stake toward the terms we use under         Article III?              MR. MITCHELL: The live dispute is in        obtaining a court judgment that incorporates that relief         that's been offered.               CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: So ­­ well, what is         it you're worried about, that they won't make good on          the offer, or ­­               MR. MITCHELL: The mere offer of complete        relief does not have anything to do with mootness. Even           if the plaintiff and the defendant agree on what the          proper judicial relief should be, the only question in         that situation is whether the court should enter        judgment for the plaintiff, not dismiss the case for         lack of jurisdiction.               JUSTICE ALITO: Suppose Mr. Garre right now        were to take a big stack of cash out of his briefcase,             or a certified check, and present that to you. Would            there be any case left then?                  MR. MITCHELL: There might be a defense on          the merits if Mr. Garre's client can say, we've paid the           debt. But that's not something that goes to whether          the ­­             JUSTICE ALITO: That would be ­­ there would         be a case or controversy? If this were an individual            Alderson Reporting Company Official action and the plaintiff had received from ­­ and ­­ and           the damages are ­­ the ­­ the amount of potential          damages are undisputed, and the ­­ the plaintiff has         received that amount from the defendant, no dispute        about it, there wouldn't be a live case or controversy.                       MR. MITCHELL: The defendant would have a        defense on the merits. He could plead accord and          satisfaction. He could plead res judicata. He ­­                     JUSTICE ALITO: Well, why is there a live          case or controvery? What is the controversy?                    MR. MITCHELL: Because there's ­­ there's a        past injury that's been alleged caused by the defendant         that could be redressed, in theory, with judicial        relief. That ­­               JUSTICE ALITO: Which would give the ­­ the         defendant ­­ which would give the plaintiff what in         addition to the money, under my hypothetical?                   MR. MITCHELL: He shouldn't get anything in        addition to what he's already received, but that goes to          the merits, not to whether an Article III case or          controversy exists.                          When a court ­­    JUSTICE KENNEDY: You're saying the      defendant has ­­ has an interest ­­ pardon me ­­ that           the plaintiff has an interest in the judgment ­­        Alderson Reporting Company Official MR. MITCHELL: Yes.    JUSTICE KENNEDY: ­­ quite separate from                               obtaining all the relief that he requests.                               MR. MITCHELL: Well, he hasn't obtained ­­       JUSTICE KENNEDY: Again ­­ again, why ­­       well, let ­­ let's assume the case in which they asked           for $, and $, is deposited in a bank with           irrevocable instructions to pay it.                             MR. MITCHELL: Right.    JUSTICE KENNEDY: What ­­ what ­­ what is ­­         is the concrete injury, as the Chief Justice said, that          results in adversity?               MR. MITCHELL: The concrete injury is the        past injury that he's already suffered. That the injury          has already been remedied is a defense that goes to the            merits. It doesn't go to Article III. Everyone          agrees ­­                         JUSTICE KENNEDY: I'm sorry. Go ahead.        MR. MITCHELL: Everyone agrees, Justice      Kennedy, that under your hypothetical, the case should        be thrown out of court. The only dispute is whether           it's thrown out of court on jurisdictional grounds under         Article III or whether it's bounced on the merits         because the defendant has an affirmative defense.                   CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Voluntary cessation      Alderson Reporting Company Official can moot a case whether the plaintiff likes it or not,            right?             MR. MITCHELL: If ­­ if it's certain that         the conduct won't reoccur.                CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, if it's       certain that they're going to give you the money that          you asked for, why isn't the same result applied?                     In other words, why is it not simply what         the plaintiff wants? He doesn't want the money he's          asking for; he wants a judgment that will give him the            money. As far as I can tell, that's your argument.                        MR. MITCHELL: When you're dealing with past        injury, Mr. Chief Justice, there's always a past injury          that remains ­­                                      JUSTICE KENNEDY: But there has to ­­       MR. MITCHELL: ­­ even if ­­      JUSTICE KENNEDY: But there has to       be adversity, as the Chief Justice mentioned in his         first question. And if $, is in the bank and he's            been injured in the ­­ in the sum of $,, there's no            adversity.             MR. MITCHELL: There is adversity if the        plaintiff comes into court ­­                JUSTICE KENNEDY: Other ­­ other than the ­­        the ­­ the stigma of a judgment.        Alderson Reporting Company Official             MR. MITCHELL: If the plaintiff comes into        court demanding more and the defendant says, no, you're         not entitled to that, there is adversity, Justice        Kennedy.             Now, the plaintiff is not legally entitled       to additional damages on the merits if he's already been          paid. But, again, that goes to the merits. That's not            part of the Article III inquiry.                  Redressability under Article III does not      ask whether the plaintiff is legally entitled to the         relief he demands. He could be making an utterly          meritless claim for relief.                But that's not the Article III question.       Article III assumes the plaintiff would have a legal          entitlement to the relief demanded and asks whether that         relief, if granted by the court, would redress the         injury that he ­­               CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: You put a lot of          weight on what the plaintiffs ­­ but there's another         interest here, which is the ­­ the court's interest.                     You're being given everything you want. You        say, well, we've had a past injury. Well, you asked for             relief on that, and that is what you're being given.          And yet you say, nonetheless, we're entitled to enlist         the court and the court's time. And not only that,           Alderson Reporting Company Official under Article III, we're entitled to get a legal ruling,           even though there's no ­­ there's nothing more that they          can give you.                           MR. MITCHELL: Just ­­ just to be clear ­­         CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: You won't ­­ you        won't take "yes" for an answer.                  MR. MITCHELL: Mr. Chief Justice, we have        not been offered everything we've demanded. We have ­­         we have ­­              CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, that's a ­­        that's a ­­ that's a factual question.                     Right.             MR. MITCHELL: That's a different question.        CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: The district court       said you were ­­               MR. MITCHELL: No, no. I'm sorry. The          district court did not say that. There's no finding ­­                                  CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Page a?      MR. MITCHELL: Page a in the Petition        Appendix. The district court does not say, as a matter            of law or as a finding of fact, that we were offered             complete relief.              What the district court said on page a is         that it assumes, for the sake of argument, that the          offer constituted complete relief only ­­ only ­­       Alderson Reporting Company Official             CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: No. Sorry. Sorry,         counselor. That's not what it says. It's not "we           assume for the sake of argument."                              MR. MITCHELL: Right. Not ­­        we say ­­  CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: "The parties do not        dispute that defendant's Rule offer would have fully         satisfied the individual claims asserted" ­­                             MR. MITCHELL: The end ­­     CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: ­­ "or that could        have been asserted by plaintiff in this action."                    MR. MITCHELL: Only the individual claims.       And the district court was wrong to say that we did not            dispute that.                          If you look at docket entry ­­      CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, did the Ninth        Circuit proceed to decide the case on the basis of that           factual finding?              MR. MITCHELL: No, it didn't ­­ we disputed         in the Ninth. We said in the Ninth Circuit that the            district court was wrong to say that on page a of the            Petition Appendix. It's in Docket Entry in the Ninth           Circuit record on ­­               CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Did the Ninth       Circuit proceed to decide the case on the basis of the           assumption that the district court factual determination       Alderson Reporting Company Official was correct?              MR. MITCHELL: No. The Ninth Circuit        assumed, for the sake of argument ­­                  CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: I think that is the          same as proceed to decide for ­­                  MR. MITCHELL: No. I don't ­­ I don't ­­ I              don't agree, Mr. Chief Justice.                 There was binding precedent in the Ninth       Circuit already before we got there, in Diaz and Pitts,          that said even an offer of complete relief from the          defendant does not moot the case.                  So if the defendant throws up his hands and         unconditionally surrenders, whether it's a class action        or not, that has nothing to do with mootness. It may            justify a forced entry of judgment, but it does not moot            the case.              And that's the problem that Mr. Garre cannot        get around, because Campbell­Ewald insists in this case        that the district court ­­                JUSTICE SCALIA: Well, you're ­­ you're ­­       you're contrasting a forced entry of judgment on the one           hand with mootness on the other. But a forced entry of             judgment is one of the remedies for mootness.                    MR. MITCHELL: No. Those are mutually        exclusive. If the case is moot, a court cannot enter a             Alderson Reporting Company Official judgment ever, under any circumstance.                             JUSTICE SCALIA: No.    MR. MITCHELL: The only proper response in        that situation is to dismiss for lack of subject matter          jurisdiction under Rule (b)().                            judgment.             JUSTICE SCALIA: I don't ­­      MR. MITCHELL: There can never be a        JUSTICE SCALIA: I think ­­ I think when           there has been a settlement and the parties have agreed           to a settlement, the court can enter a judgment.                       MR. MITCHELL: It can. And that's exactly         why settlement ­­              moot ­­                         settlement.             JUSTICE SCALIA: Even though the case is        MR. MITCHELL: No, the case is not ­­        JUSTICE SCALIA: ­­ because of the       MR. MITCHELL: The case is not moot. If the           court is entering a judgment, by definition the case is           not moot. Mootness requires a jurisdictional dismissal.         Mootness forbids the entry of any type of judgment.                     So for Campbell­Ewald to come into this       Court and say that the district court retained the         prerogative to enter a judgment on the merits after the           Alderson Reporting Company Official offer of complete relief has been tendered is a         confession that the offer of complete relief on this         case ­­             JUSTICE SCALIA: It isn't a judgment on the          merits. It's ­­ it's ­­ it's a judgment affirming the            settlement, affirming what the parties themselves have       agreed to.                          MR. MITCHELL: That's still a judgment.        JUSTICE SCALIA: It doesn't go to the merits         of the claim.               MR. MITCHELL: It ­­ oh, it may not ­­ it           may not resolve the merits for purposes of issue         preclusion. That's correct, Justice Scalia, but it's        still a judgment under Rule . It is court­ordered           relief. And a court cannot do that in a case when it               lacks subject­matter jurisdiction.               Mootness and forced entry of judgment are       mutually exclusive.              CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: ­­ so just to be         clear on the facts without getting into a dispute, let's           say that the offer is for the ­­ all relief that you            have asked for.                           MR. MITCHELL: Yes.    CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Not a question of         what you think they're entitled to or what they think;          Alderson Reporting Company Official everything you've asked for, including all attorneys'       fees, so there's no question of cost­shifting or        anything like that. All injunctive relief.                    They come to you and say, you write the        injunction. You say there is still a case or           controversy that could proceed to litigation.                  MR. MITCHELL: There is a case or         controversy that might lead to a forced entry of          judgment if the plaintiff, for obstinacy or other types         of reasons, wants to decline this offer.                               It's hard to imagine ­­    CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: What's ­­ what is        the controversy? In the case I've hypothesized ­­                                MR. MITCHELL: The controversy is ­­      CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: ­­ what is the        controversy?             MR. MITCHELL: The controversy is the       plaintiff wants a judgment of the court that         incorporates that relief.                 A mere offer from the defendant is a legal         nullity. He's not getting the money.                   CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, I thought you         said if the plaintiff is being obstreperous or whatever,         you know, the ­­ just refusing to take it for spite or            some reason. In that case?      Alderson Reporting Company Official             MR. MITCHELL: Enter a judgment, not ­­ not          dismiss for mootness.               CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: And what would the        judgment say?              MR. MITCHELL: The judgment would say: You         asked for X. The defendant offered X. This case is            over. Both sides agree on what the proper legal relief           should be. And I think ­­                   what ­­                         JUSTICE KENNEDY: But I thought that's        MR. MITCHELL: ­­ and enter a judgment.         JUSTICE KENNEDY: ­­ Mr. Garre was arguing.        He said he'd need a judgment.                               MR. MITCHELL: No. He's saying it's moot.         Now, he's trying to say that mootness allows        the court also to enter a judgment, but that's a           contradiction in terms if it's moot.                  JUSTICE KAGAN: And I take it that this          judgment that you're talking about would be: He offered          this. It's everything that you asked for. We are           ordering that he pay it. And ­­                               MR. MITCHELL: Yes.    JUSTICE KAGAN: ­­ and ­­ and now the thing          is dismissed.              MR. MITCHELL: Right. And now it's backed         Alderson Reporting Company Official up with the force of the court. It can be enforced with             contempt citations, which a mere offer of complete         relief can't.              In fact, an unaccepted offer has no legal        effect at all on the judgment.                  JUSTICE ALITO: If the case is dead when         there's ­­ when the judgment is entered, it seems to me           it's even more dead when you've actually got the case in           hand. If you have the judgment, you're going to ­­ you            may have to enforce the judgment. You don't actually          have anything of value. You have a piece of paper.                        MR. MITCHELL: You still have ­­ you ­­ you          may still have to enforce the judgment, but that's much          easier than enforcing an ­­ an offer.                   JUSTICE ALITO: That's better ­ it's better         to be ­­ if somebody gave you the choice between a           judgment that says you're entitled to a certain amount          of money and the money itself in your hand, you would           rather have the judgment?                MR. MITCHELL: We don't have the money in         our hand. It's been offered ­­                  JUSTICE ALITO: But if you did. That was my           first hypothetical. If you did, if you actually had the           money in hand.               MR. MITCHELL: If we actually had the money         Alderson Reporting Company Official in hand, we're not entitled to an additional judgment,         because the defendant in that case would have a defense           on the merits. It still doesn't justify throwing us out           of court on mootness.                moot ­­             JUSTICE SCALIA: Okay. But it wouldn't be         MR. MITCHELL: It's not jurisdictional ­­      I'm sorry. Go ahead.                             you've ­­                                                                                     JUSTICE SCALIA: My goodness.     So every case has to be tried even when         MR. MITCHELL: No.    JUSTICE SCALIA: ­­ been paid.      MR. MITCHELL: Not tried.     JUSTICE SCALIA: He's ­­ I want a judgment.           MR. MITCHELL: No.    JUSTICE SCALIA: And you say it's not moot.         MR. MITCHELL: The court can say, we're        terminating the litigation and entering judgment for       you, Mr. Plaintiff, because you're not accepting an        unconditional surrender from the defendant.                 You don't go to trial in that situation.        You enter judgment for the plaintiff. It's not to be           thrown out for lack of jurisdiction.                    A jurisdictional dismissal sends the    Alderson Reporting Company Official plaintiff home empty­handed, with nothing. No judicial        relief at all. This unaccepted offer is just out there.           It hasn't been accepted. It can't be enforced in any           way.                         remedy.             CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: So if ­­      MR. MITCHELL: Not by contract; not by any         CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: If, Mr. Garre, as        you're leaving the courtroom today says, here, we will         accept an entry of judgment; one, we'll make sure you          get whatever attorneys' fees you want, and we will         accept an entry of judgment, then the ­­ then the case           would be over?               be moot.                          MR. MITCHELL: Well, it certainly would not        CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Would it be over?        MR. MITCHELL: If he wants to accept an         entry of judgment on everything that we've asked for,         which includes: The attorneys' fees; a real injunction,          not a vague, "obey the law" injunction that's in his           offer; and class certification and class relief ­­                   CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Oh, well, that's the        whole thing; right?                           MR. MITCHELL: Right. Right.      CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: This is all about        Alderson Reporting Company Official class certification.              MR. MITCHELL: But we ­­ one does not get to           class certification until the court first concludes that        the individual claims have become moot. And there's no          way the claims can be mooted out simply by an offer ­­                       CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: So the case comes        down to, once we put away ­­ hypothesize that you're          getting everything you, as the plaintiff in this case,         has asked for, it all comes down to whether or not you            can get the class certified.                 MR. MITCHELL: But it comes ­­ the question         presented asked whether the offer of complete relief        moots the case.                                                                                       CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: And you're saying ­­       MR. MITCHELL: And the answer to that ­­        CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: And you're saying ­­       MR. MITCHELL: ­­ question is no.       CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Excuse me.      MR. MITCHELL: I'm sorry.     CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: And you're saying       that it's not because of the possibility that you could          get a class certified.                             MR. MITCHELL: Well, that's one ­­      CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: My hypothesis is you        get everything else. Okay?     Alderson Reporting Company Official MR. MITCHELL: Yes.    CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: The only thing they                                don't say ­­ they enter a judgment. You want a            judgment? Here's your judgment. You want all the          attorneys' fees? Here's all your attorneys' fees. You          want an injunction? You know, go ahead and write your           injunction.             But you say still not, because you might be         able to be the representative plaintiff in a class          action?             MR. MITCHELL: That's ­­ that's one of the         many reasons why it's not ­­                                         JUSTICE BREYER: I don't see why that one ­­          CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Of course not.       JUSTICE BREYER: ­­ would be a good ­­ the           thing I thought was interesting here, and I wanted to            know your position, is the AFL­CIO brief ­­                                                                   with all ­­  MR. MITCHELL: Yes.    JUSTICE BREYER: ­­ which is on your side.         MR. MITCHELL: Yes.    JUSTICE BREYER: Do you agree with it?        MR. MITCHELL: I wouldn't say that we agree                      JUSTICE BREYER: I want to know: Do you           agree with it?   Alderson Reporting Company Official MR. MITCHELL: No, we don't.      JUSTICE BREYER: Fine. But why not? What                                  they say is that the right way to go about this is ­­            and they cite cases and so forth in the nineteenth          century ­­ is that the defendant should not ­­ you're          right. It's not an offer of relief. What they say is             the defendant is supposed to tender the money.                     And when he tenders the money, if the       plaintiff won't accept it, he goes to the court and he           deposits the money in the court. And the court then           issues a judgment saying, this case is over.                     That's what I read here in pages to ,            and they have lots of authority, and that gets rid of           the problem. And there's no ­­ it seems to me, well, if             it isn't right, why isn't it?                  moot.                         MR. MITCHELL: It may be over, but it's not          JUSTICE BREYER: Why ­­    MR. MITCHELL: This has nothing to do with         what moot is.               JUSTICE BREYER: Who ­­ what the judge does         is say, they want $,. What the defendant does is           he says, they won't take my check, which should be          certified. So he deposits it in court.                    MR. MITCHELL: Right.    Alderson Reporting Company Official             JUSTICE BREYER: The judge at that point        should say, the defendant has all he wants. The case is            over. Goodbye. And, of course, if that person now has            all he wants, he can't certify this is a class because            he isn't harmed.               MR. MITCHELL: He gets judgment on the        merits in that situation.                JUSTICE BREYER: Fine. Give him judgment on         the merits. Who cares?                 MR. MITCHELL: It's actually a very        important distinction.                                      JUSTICE BREYER: Why?    MR. MITCHELL: Because many reasons.      JUSTICE BREYER: Well, give me one.                   (Laughter.)             MR. MITCHELL: All right. I'll start with         one. The question presented ­­ the question presented         asks whether an offer of complete relief renders the         case ­­             JUSTICE BREYER: I'm not interested at the        moment in the question asked. I am interested in the            question I am asking.                 (Laughter.)             MR. MITCHELL: All right. It may very well          be that if the defendant in that case comes into court           Alderson Reporting Company Official and says the case is over, the district court would have           the prerogative to enter a judgment on the merits for           the defendant because the plaintiff has already been        paid, and the plaintiff can't double­dip. That goes to          the merits.              But Campbell­Ewald never asked the district      court for judgment on the merits.                  JUSTICE BREYER: And that isn't what I said.          You now sound as if you are agreeing with the AFL­CIO.                       MR. MITCHELL: I don't agree with it because          they are implying that that would moot the case.                     JUSTICE BREYER: No, they don't say what the         effect of it would be.                             practical.                         MR. MITCHELL: Fine.    JUSTICE BREYER: What I want ­­ I'm being          MR. MITCHELL: Okay.    JUSTICE BREYER: And the practical thing is        that the defendant wants to pay off the plaintiff by          giving him everything he wants.                 MR. MITCHELL: Yes. We agree ­­                   JUSTICE BREYER: Is there a way to do it?           What they say is, yes, the way to do it is you tender             the money in a certified check, and if he won't take it,             pay the money into court. And the ­­ the judge then            Alderson Reporting Company Official enters a judgment in favor of the plaintiff, who has           gotten everything he asked for.                 MR. MITCHELL: If he's gotten everything       he's asked for, that goes ­­                 JUSTICE BREYER: Not the class      certification. There's nothing in there that says ­­                    MR. MITCHELL: Yes, apart from class action,        which is a more complicated question. But ­­                     JUSTICE BREYER: No, it's not a more         complicated question.                          MR. MITCHELL: Well, it is ­­      JUSTICE BREYER: In my hypothetical, I'm       saying, in those circumstances, do you agree ­­ do you          or do you not agree, and if not, why not? The only             thing that's left is, you'd like, says the plaintiff,         class certification, or at least the lawyer would.                    MR. MITCHELL: The case is not over if         you're talking about class certification, because Roper       holds specifically that the representative plaintiff can       continue litigating the class certification if      there's ­­ even after ­­                JUSTICE BREYER: Even though there's been a        certified check tendered to the plaintiff and a judgment          has been entered giving ­­ saying the case is over          because he's got everything he wants.      Alderson Reporting Company Official             MR. MITCHELL: That was the situation in        Roper. There was a forced entry of judgment imposed on            the representative plaintiffs. And this Court allowed        the representative to continue litigating the class       certification issue because he had a financial stake in          the class certification decision.                And Mr. Gomez, likewise, has a financial        stake. That's undisputed ­­                CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: What is ­­ what is         the financial stake here?                MR. MITCHELL: There are two of them. One          is the cost sharing of the lawyers.                   CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Okay. Well, the        cost ­­ so then that's fully satisfied if the offer          covers attorneys' fees?               MR. MITCHELL: Yes. Of course, this ­­ this          offer does not.               CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Okay. Now, if ­­                    MR. MITCHELL: Yes.               CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Right.                 MR. MITCHELL: Right.                CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: What was the other        one?             MR. MITCHELL: The other one would be the         incentive award that he would recover if the class is          Alderson Reporting Company Official certified and the case proceeds either to settlement or         to victory. And that's another ­­                                          CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: The incentive award?       MR. MITCHELL: The incentive award.      Normally, a representative plaintiff after a       class gets certified and the settlement gets ­­                   CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: You ­­ is there any         concern that a plaintiff who has received or has been           offered all relief that he could receive is an         appropriate representative plaintiff of parties who have       not gotten all the relief?                 MR. MITCHELL: That ­­ that might be        something for a court to consider under Rule , whether           this person is an adequate representative. But we don't          think there is much of a difference there because the           incentive award still gives him incentives to press for         the fellow class members.                where ­­             And this Court's upheld qui tam litigation,       CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: So the argument is        that an individual plaintiff who has gotten everything        that he has asked for ­­ and I realize you argue that             isn't the case here.                MR. MITCHELL: Yes, not even close, yes.                    CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: ­­ is ­­ is entitled         Alderson Reporting Company Official to proceed with the litigation because he might get a          bonus from a class action that he would like to lead?                                                MR. MITCHELL: That's correct.     CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Okay.     MR. MITCHELL: But, again, that's only one        of many reasons why we win on the mootness question.          And, you know, there's still the problem of the mutual          exclusivity between a mootness finding and a forced          entry of judgment.               JUSTICE ALITO: Can I ask you just a          practical question? Is Mr. Garre right that this is a           case, if he were to proceed, if it were ­­ the class            were certified and you get a judgment, this is a case             where the class action attorneys are going to get a lot            and the members of the class are going to get virtually           nothing?                         MR. MITCHELL: No.    JUSTICE ALITO: You would have to ­­ you         would have to prove that at the ­­ to establish damages,           would you not, that the members of the class did not           consent to receive these messages, right?                  MR. MITCHELL: That ­­ that's correct. And         it went beyond ­­               JUSTICE ALITO: How would you do that? How          would you be able to ­­ how can you prove that           Alderson Reporting Company Official somebody ­­ some member of the class at some point when           they were agreeing to something on the internet didn't         click a box that said, I agree to receive messages from             all of, you know, a big class of senders?                      MR. MITCHELL: There are opt­in lists that        are maintained by companies like MindMatics and       Campbell­Ewald that can be discovered, and that's how we         would go about proving it.                 JUSTICE ALITO: What do you think the class         members would get?                           MR. MITCHELL: They're entitled to ­­      JUSTICE ALITO: Individual class members.      As a practical matter, what would they get at the end            of ­­             MR. MITCHELL: What would they get in the         settlement? I would imagine they would probably get ­­                                                          JUSTICE ALITO: A settlement? You're ­­        MR. MITCHELL: If it settles.      JUSTICE ALITO: What if it's not?       MR. MITCHELL: They're entitled to $       apiece in statutory damages that could be trebled to         $, if we can show there was a ­­ violation.                       JUSTICE ALITO: And you're going to be able         to determine who did not ­­ prove that certain people          did not consent?   Alderson Reporting Company Official             MR. MITCHELL: It would be based on whether         they appeared on the opt­in list, whether they had         appeared on some type of opt­in list from which ­­                     JUSTICE GINSBURG: What do you ­­ what do         you do to get on that opt­in list?                    MR. MITCHELL: You have to check a box or           submit a form that says you're interested in receiving          e­mails or text messages about certain topics. And in          this case, the Navy instructed Campbell­Ewald to send        text messages only to people who had opted in to receive           information about money for college, travel and       adventure, something related to the Navy. And this list          was not assembled properly.                JUSTICE GINSBURG: We ­­ we haven't talked        about the second issue that you raise, and one curiosity          is the ­­ the actor that did something wrong was ­­ what            is it? MindMatics?                            MR. MITCHELL: Yes, MindMatics.     JUSTICE GINSBURG: But you didn't sue. What         is the reason that you went after the contractor only?                      MR. MITCHELL: Campbell­Ewald is vicariously      liable, and they were the ones that were sued. But...                       JUSTICE GINSBURG: So you're relying on       vicarious liability?              MR. MITCHELL: Yes. The Ninth Circuit found         Alderson Reporting Company Official that ­­ may I answer?                                          CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Sure.     MR. MITCHELL: Thank you.     The Ninth Circuit found that the TCPA       incorporates vicarious liability and that Campbell­Ewald      is vicariously liable for MindMatics' actions. And they         did not appeal that. That is the law of the case.                        Mitchell. CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, Mr.                   Mr. Yang.              ORAL ARGUMENT OF ANTHONY A. YANG          ON BEHALF OF THE UNITED STATES, AS AMICUS CURIAE,                          SUPPORTING RESPONDENTS              MR. YANG: Mr. Chief Justice, and may it         please the Court:               I'd like to take the opportunity to clarify        the Article III question by addressing the elements of         an Article III case or controversy, an established        Federal practice that I believe shows that an offer ­­          an unaccepted offer, in particular, cannot moot a case.          And if there's time, I'd like to address the derivative          sovereign immunity argument.               First, there is a distinction that this        Court has established between prospective relief and       retrospective relief. When you seek prospective relief,        Alderson Reporting Company Official you need to show an ongoing or imminent injury.                     In that context, a defendant can actually        halt the injury that's necessary by stopping, so long as          you meet the voluntary cessation doctrine or ­­ so long          as you show that it's not capable of repetition you're          going to be in review. So the injury with respect to            prospective relief, that is, the injury that's occurring        now or in the future, can end.                   When we're talking about retrospective     relief, damages, the injury is in the past. It's not           undone. An offer of money may be compensation for that           injury, but the injury continues to exist.                   For purposes of Article III, the question       is, there has to be an injury. It has to be fairly             traceable. That's established by the past injury        that ­­ caused by the defendant. And the requested          judicial relief would likely redress the injury. Now,         the requested relief, even when there's been an offer,         is: I want money.                  Second ­­             JUSTICE SCALIA: I'm sorry. Those are ­­        those are the three requirements for Article III        standing, but there's an additional requirement of       adverseness. None of those three requirements that        are ­­ that are set forth in our ­­ in our opinions deal             Alderson Reporting Company Official with adverseness. That's a separate ­­ separate issue.                                  MR. YANG: Well ­­    JUSTICE SCALIA: And that's what's being       challenged here.              MR. YANG: I don't believe so. It's          embedded in the request for relief. The plaintiff comes          to the court and says, I want relief from the court.            The defendant says, no, no, don't grant the relief.         I've either ­­ the case is moot.                     I think that's what's going on here. There        is a distinction between ­­                 JUSTICE SCALIA: There has to be injury, in         fact, okay? It has to be attributable to the ­­ to the             defendant, okay. And the court must be able to remedy           it. None of those three requirements, which are the          classic requirements, deals with the quite separate       point of adverseness.               MR. YANG: I believe it's embedded in ­­                     JUSTICE SCALIA: If somebody comes in and        says, yes, you've been injured, the court could provide         relief, but I ­­ I agree with all of that, and here is               the money.              MR. YANG: Well, then the case is not moot.          The court can grant relief. The court enters a judgment            ordering relief, which is enforceable with all the        Alderson Reporting Company Official court's powers, which is quite distinct from a judgment          of dismissal for one of jurisdiction.                  That ­­ that's a ­­ you need to have ­­ a            court needs Article III power to direct a remedy against           the defendant. It's quite unlike a dismissal for one of            jurisdiction. It's also quite unlike the remedy of         vacatur, which undoes a court judgment.                   So Mr. Garre's, you know, attempt to kind of         frame this either as, you know, a ­­ a prospective            relief case or a case where you're getting a judgment, a             judgment of dismissal for one of jurisdiction is not an          enforceable judgment in the way that is relevant for         purposes of Article III jurisdiction.                 JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Mr. Yang, I ­­ I ­­ I do              understand what you and Petitioner ­­ Respondent's       counsel are arguing, which is someone, a judge, has to           say, at some point, this is in fact complete relief and           enter a judgment for that complete relief.                    That's your argument.               MR. YANG: In part, I believe that's right.                      JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: All right.                 Parties could stipulate. If they ­­ if they         accept an offer of settlement, that's like a stipulation          saying, this is complete relief for us. There's no          adversity. Alderson Reporting Company Official MR. YANG: The ­­ and the parties when they          JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Right.    MR. YANG: When they say, we've agreed and                     agree.                         we ­­ we give up, the case will normally be thought of            as moot.              But there is ­­ there are several       longstanding Federal practices, both in Federal courts,       actually, as well as in State courts, that I think           reflects this point.                 A party ­­ parties can agree to settle a        case, but a court retains jurisdiction to enter a          consent decree. This is an enforceable judgment.                    Justice Kennedy, you talked about Kokkonen.      This is the great distinction between a settlement offer          and a judgment.                The court has authority to enter a consent         decree even after the parties have settled. That's more          than an offer. It's actual ­­ a settlement.                      Two, courts can ­­               JUSTICE SCALIA: Excuse me.                 It ­­ it has authority to enter that even         though the case is moot; right.                  MR. YANG: No. It ­­                  JUSTICE SCALIA: But when there's a       Alderson Reporting Company Official settlement offer which has been accepted, the court can         nonetheless issue a judgment enforcing that settlement,        no?             MR. YANG: The case is not moot because the          parties are ­­ are saying, we are agreeing on the entry           of a judgment, not we're agreeing in the abstract to           just ­­                                     JUSTICE SCALIA: Oh ­­    MR. YANG: ­­ to settle the case.        JUSTICE SCALIA: So ­­ so even though the         parties have no adverseness at all and they all agree on           what the outcome should be, but we want a court to go             into this matter which we've all agreed on because we          want a judgment? Is ­­ is ­­ is that ­­                                   MR. YANG: What ­­    JUSTICE SCALIA: ­­ the Article III       adverseness requirement?              MR. YANG: This is not a remarkable         proposition. Courts all the time ­­                              JUSTICE SCALIA: I think it's remarkable.        MR. YANG: ­­ all the time enter consent         decrees. These are enforceable with the power of the         court.             Two, they also dismiss with prejudice. That        is not a dismissal for one of jurisdiction. It's a            Alderson Reporting Company Official resolution of the claim.                offer.             Three, they enter judgment in a Rule         Also, you look at the affirmative defenses,       which are all waivable, in Rule (c), accord and         satisfaction, payment, res judicata.                CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: What happens on       other grounds of lack of jurisdiction? What if the          plaintiff has no injury?                There is no injury. The court ­­ in other          words, the ­­ the requirements for Article III        jurisdiction that you rehearsed. What happens in that         case? No jurisdiction for another reason besides       mootness?                         MR. YANG: Right.    The court would dismiss the case for one of         jurisdiction, saying that there is no injury.                   CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, what if the ­­        the plaintiff comes in and says, well, I want ­­ I want              a judgment? Or because what other ­­                               MR. YANG: But ­­    CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: ­­ bases, or I        want ­­ I want ­­ whatever reason. I mean, they're ­­             we're insisting on a judgment even though, arguably,         depending upon the scope of the offered relief, the case          Alderson Reporting Company Official MR. YANG: Our point is that ­­       CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Other cases, you say        is moot.                          they dismiss it as ­­ why ­­ why doesn't that go to            trial? Or ­­ or you get the benefit of the court            determination?             MR. YANG: The standing inquiry has to, of         course, be addressed at the relevant stage of the case.          So, for instance, at the pleading stage, if you failed          to allege an injury sufficient ­­                 JUSTICE SCALIA: I think you're wrong. I          think if there's no standing, I don't think you get           dismissed as moot. I think you get a judgment for the              defendant because the plaintiff has no standing.                   MR. YANG: It's not a ­­ it's a judgment            that there is lack of standing, that you have no injury.           It's not a resolution of the claim itself.                     JUSTICE SCALIA: Indeed. So ­­ so the fact          that the court issues judgment has nothing to do with          whether there's Article III standing, whether there's       mootness or not. You can enter the judgment even though           there's no Article III standing.                 MR. YANG: There is a ­­ there is a           difference between a judgment for want of jurisdiction         that the court is just ­­ I don't have the power to             Alderson Reporting Company Official address this.              In a judgment where the court says, I have           power to ­­ to enter relief that is enforceable through          collateral proceedings through all the ­­ the ­­ the         great power of a Federal court, that is a big            difference.               A court requires Article III jurisdiction to      exercise that power over the litigants. And that's what          normally happens with consent decrees, with dismissals       with prejudice, with a judgment under Rule offer.          And it also, conversely, even when a party's been fully           paid.             The fact that the defense of payment ­­       accord and satisfaction can all be waived. So at the           end of the case, if the defendant hasn't actually raised          these and then belatedly says, I forgot. I paid the             guy, and the claim was for a thousand dollars, the court            says, sorry. Forfeited. Judgment for another $,.                     CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: So even if a ­­ even           if the plaintiff is given all the relief to which he is            entitled, you say the plaintiff still has a right to           involve the Federal court in that ­­                  MR. YANG: The ­­                CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: And I was ­­ I ­­ I             can't say "that controversy," because you still have to         Alderson Reporting Company Official right to call ­­ go into Federal court and say, I know,             Federal court, you're busy with a lot of things, but I            still want you to hear my case even though I've gotten           everything I could get.                 MR. YANG: And I don't want to mislead the           Court into thinking that we're advocating protracted       litigation on claims where there is a powerful defense          like payment. That is a merits defense: We've paid the             claim. You don't ­­ you can't get any more money from            me.             But for ­­ the question of the court's power         to entertain that merits defense is what we're saying         is ­­ like the fact that we have affirmative defenses          that may be waived. Even a res judicata, the court has             already adjudicated the very claim, and yet if the         defendant does not raise it, this Court has held it          doesn't go to the court's jurisdiction.                              And so the ­­ you could get relief twice.         CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: So is a ­­ is a           plaintiff who has been given all the relief that he's          requested, in the view of the United States, an adequate          class representative?              MR. YANG: This is, again, not an Article         III question but a Rule question.                      I think that could be considered by the       Alderson Reporting Company Official Court in exercising its discretion under Rule .                    CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, of course it        can. I want to know what the position is.                       MR. YANG: I think if the ­­ I ­­ I think               that's hard, and let me tell you why. To be an adequate             represented ­­ representative of the class, you can't        simply be looking out for your own interests. You have           to be looking out for the interests of the class. And            that's part of the requirement.                   A defendant who says, I'll just accept my       money and drop the interests of the class, you know,          it's not ­­ you wonder whether that defendant is ­­ or           plaintiff is actually a good adequate representative.                    Rule ­­ and, again, now we're stepping        away from the Article III question. We're getting into          questions of discretion.               CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, counsel.                   Mr. Garre, you have four minutes remaining.                 REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF GREGORY G. GARRE                     ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONER                 MR. GARRE: Thank you, Mr. Chief Justice.                    First, the Article III principle that should       control the resolution of this case was stated in the          San Pablo case on page .                  The court said the court is not empowered to         Alderson Reporting Company Official decide moot questions or declare rules of law which         cannot affect the result as to the thing in issue in the            case before it.               And that's exactly what's at issue before       the case ­­ the Court today.                  JUSTICE GINSBURG: Relying on a provision of         the California Civil Code, which was quite different        from Rule .               MR. GARRE: I'm ­­ I'm not talking about the          technical distinction of the cases. I'm talking about         the Article III principle that controls here.                   JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Mr. Garre, I am so         confused by your argument. You get to say, on your own,            unilaterally, I offered you complete relief, even        though, right or wrong, the plaintiff is asking for a          particular injunction and a particular attorney's fee.                    You, without any judicial interpretation,     intervention, get to moot the case on your terms.                     MR. GARRE: Your Honor ­­                 JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: What happens if you       hadn't done that? Let's assume that he was entitled to           attorneys' fees. Who's ­­ when does that decision get          made and by whom?                MR. GARRE: Your Honor, a court ­­                    JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: That a complete offer        Alderson Reporting Company Official has been made?               MR. GARRE: A court makes the determination         that the offer is complete, just as it would make a           determination that the defendant had in fact       voluntarily ceased his conduct.                JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: That ­­ that is ­­       that's all I needed for you to say.                                             this case.              MR. GARRE: Okay. Thank you.       JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Okay? Let's stop there.        MR. GARRE: And ­­ and the Court did it in           JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: So a court gets        involved ­­ a court gets involved no matter what.          Right?             MR. GARRE: As it always would for a         mootness determination. Of course.                 JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: All right. So you        offered and they wanted an injunction. The court can          enter that injunction.               I'm putting aside the class action. I'm ­­                    MR. GARRE: Yes.                JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: The court can't ­­ all        right.             MR. GARRE: Because it could ­­ in this ­­         the case is settled.    Alderson Reporting Company Official             JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: But it can't just say        the case is moot and not enter the injunction. The           terms of the settlement, the terms of the lawsuit, were          that an injunction would be issued and you'd pay $,;          correct?             MR. GARRE: Your Honor, I think        Justice Scalia had exactly the right answer on this,         which is that there's ­­ there's decades, if not         centuries, of practice dealing with this situation, and        it's a settlement context.                 Everyone agrees this Court has repeatedly      said that the settlement moots the case. That doesn't          mean that courts don't have authority ancillary       jurisdiction ­­                                     JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: That's just ­­     MR. GARRE: ­­ to dispose of the case.         JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: ­­ poor usage of words,        counselor. It can't enter a judgment ­­                                MR. GARRE: Well, I don't think ­­        JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: ­­ unless there is       jurisdiction.             MR. GARRE: I ­­ I think we're in a ­­ a               little bit of a chicken­and­the­egg situation here, Your         Honor. This Court has repeatedly said settlements moot         cases, and yet courts have authority to enter relief to          Alderson Reporting Company Official ­­            JUSTICE GINSBURG: Accepted. Accept ­­      accepted settlements.              MR. GARRE: Well, we're back to whether or         not the plaintiff can force the court to proceed ahead          and expound on the law. And on that, I think my             friend's presentation ­­              JUSTICE GINSBURG: Not settlement of the       law. Justice ­­                           MR. GARRE: No.    JUSTICE GINSBURG: ­­ Sotomayor suggested,      move this affirmative defense of payment to summary        judgment.             MR. GARRE: The case can go forward, in         their view, and the courts will have to expound on the           law. There's no independent interest in receiving a         judgment. If that's the rule, then mootness is off the           table. In almost any case can the defendant ­­ can           always ­­ the plaintiff can always say, I want a           judgment.             We're ­­ we're down to the question, really,        of: How do we get rid of this case? Because I think               that even they recognize that the ­­ if the offer is for            complete relief, then, the courts below held, the case         has to come to an end.      Alderson Reporting Company Official             There's two options for this Court. One,        you hold that the case should be dismissed as moot, and           two ­­ if you don't agree with that, then two, you hold            that the case should be disposed of by entering judgment          for the plaintiff based on the terms of the ­­ of the            offer of complete relief.                That's the Sixth Circuit rule. You can go         and look, as we did. There are plenty of judgments           where the courts have implemented that rule. There's no          evidence of any difficulty in applying that, and what         that does is it disposes of cases in a common­sense           fashion. It prevents court from ­­ courts from going          ahead and expounding on the law in cases in which they           have no business doing so.                 If I could make one point on the immunity          issue: Justice Ginsburg, you're exactly right. They         sued the wrong party. MindMatics did everything in this          case, and we're at least entitled to immunity from         vicarious liability.              CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, counsel.       The case is submitted.                (Whereupon, at : a.m., the case in the        above­entitled matter was submitted.)    Alderson Reporting Company Official Official:,, : :, :, :,, A addressing : : a.m : : : ability : able : : adequate : : :, : : : adjudicate : above­entitled : adjudicated : alive : : allegation : allege : alleged : allowed : allowing : adjudication : allows : adjudicating : : : : absent : absolutely :, :, amount :, Article : :, Page  argue : : argued : : arguing : : : argument : : :,, :, :, :, : : : : : : : : : : : attempt : attorney's : attorneys : attorneys' :, :, : : : :,, : :,, : :, :, : : arguments :, attributable : : : : : :, : : : : : : :,, : : : : :, :, : : :, : : : : : aside :, : asked :, : authority : :, :, automatically : award : :, : B back :,, : :,, : :, : : backed : ball : bank : : : :,,,, : : :, bankruptcy : : : : : : : : : : : : : :, : :, : : : : : : based : : bases : asking : : basis : : : : : : asks : : : :, beginning : : : : begins : assembled : asserted :, Assistant : assume : : : assumed : assumes : : assumption : behalf :,, :,,, : : : : beholden : belatedly : believe : : : : benefit : : Bethesda : : : abstract : adjuted : accept : : admit : : :, :, : :,, adventure : : : : : adverseness : :, :, acceptance : :, accepted : : : : :,, : : :, accepting : accord : : : : : : adversity : :,, : : advocating : affect : affirm : affirmative : : : : : affirming :, account : action : : : AFL­CIO : : agree : : alternative : amicus : : : : amounts : ancillary : : answer : : : : : : answers : ANTHONY : : : apart : apiece : appeal : : :, : : :,, :, :, :, : :,, :, : : : : : :, : actions :, : activity :, actor : actual : addition :, additional : : : address : : : addressed : : appear : : :,, :, :, APPEARANCES : : : : : : appeared :, agreed : : Appendix :, : : : agreeing : : :, agreement : agrees :, : ahead : : :, : : : : : ALITO :, :, :, : : : : applied : applies : : apply : : :, applying : appropriate : :,, : : : approved : arguably : Alderson Reporting Company Alderson Reporting Company : :,,,, citations : : : : cite : : : : :, : : : cited : : :, :,, Civil : : : :, : : : : : : :, : choice : Circuit : : : :,, : :, : : : circumstance : circumstances : : : claim :, : : : : : : : : :,, : :, : : : : : : : Official : centuries : certainly : certification : : : : : : : : :,, : :,, :, ceased : : :,, : :,, : century : :, :, certain :, :,, : :,,,, : :,, :,,,, :,, : :,,,, : :,, :,,,,, : :,, :, :,, :,, : : :, :, :, : :,, :, : :, :, :, :, certify : : :, :, :,,, : cessation : :, :, : :,, : :,, :, :, :, :, : :,, :, :, :,, :, :,, : Chief :, : : : : : :,, :, :, : :,, : :,, :, certified : : : : : : : : : :, : challenged : check : : chicken­and­the­... certifying :, : : : claimant's : : : claims : : : :, : companies : : : : : : clarify : : class : : : : :, :, : :, :,,, : : :, :, : :,, : :, :, :, :, : : : :,,,, :,,, : :, :,,,, :,,, : :, :, : :,,, :,, : : :,, :,,,, :, :, :,,,, :,, : : :, :,, : :,,,, :,,, : :,, : :,, :, classic : : Page  : clear : : :,, : : :, : : clearly : click : client : client's : close : Code : : collateral : collective :,, college : come : : : : : : : comes : : : : : : : :, : : : : : common :, : common­sense : Company : : compensation : complaint : : : : complete :, :,,, : :, : :,,,, :, : : : : :, : :, : : : :,, :, : : : completely : complicated : : better : : : beyond : : big : : : : binding : bit : : : : bonus : : bounced : box : : BREYER :, :,, : :, :, :,, : :,,, :,,, brief : : : :, : briefcase : bring : brought : business : busy : C C : : Cal : California : : call : called : Campbell­Ewald : : : : : : :, : Campbell­Ewald's : : capable : capitulation : cares : case :, :, cases : : : :, : : : : : : : : :, :,, :, :,,,, : :, :, caused : : cash : Alderson Reporting Company Official : : concede : concern : : controvery : conversely : correct : : concerns : : : deciding : : : : decided : : :,,,, : :, :, :, : :, :,, :, decision :,, :,, :, :,, : :, :, :,,,, : :, : :, court's : : deemed : :, : cost : :, cost­sharing : cost­shifting : costs : counsel : : : : counselor : Page  Department : depending : deposit : deposited : : : : : deposits :, derivative : declaratory : describe : declare : decline : designed :, decree : :, detention : decrees : : determination : :, :,, : : : : :, : : :, : default : defaulted : defendant : : : : determine : determinations : : :, :, :, :, : :, : :, : :, : : : determined : :,,, device : : : : Diaz : : : : difference : :, :,, :, :, :, :, : : : : :, : : different :, : :,,,, : : difficult : : : : defense : : directed : difficulty : direct : : directly : discovered : discretion : :, dismiss :, : : : : : : : : dismissal : : : : :,, : dismissals : dismissed : : : : concludes : concrete :, conduct :, :,,, : : confession : confused : Congress : connection : consent : : : :, : : consider : : considered : : consistent : constituted : contempt : contested : context : : : : : : : : continue : : continues : contract :, : contract­based : contractor : contradiction : contrasting : control : controls : : controversy : : : : :, : : : : :, :, :,,, : :, : couple : : : :, course :, : court­ordered : : : : : : : curiosity : courtroom : courts : : :,, : :, :, :, creditor : critical : curiae : : court :, : :, : : : :,,,, : :,, : :, : covers : :,, :, created : : : : :,,, :, :, :,, :, : :, :,,, : :,, :, :, :,, : D.C :, : : : damages : :, :,, : :, : :, : :,, :,,, :,, : deal : : definition : : :,, dealing : : demanded : : : : : : : : : : :,, : debt : : :,, : : :, decades : : : decide :, : denying : day :, days : dead :, deals : : dealt : : :, : : :,, : :, : : : : defendant's : : : : : D : : : demanding : demands : denial :, : defenses : : D Alderson Reporting Company Official :, :, : : : : :,, : : : equally : equivalent : erroneous : ESQ :,, : :,, essentially : : establish : established : : : Page  : : : : :,, :, : : : : : : : : : : fish : fit : following : footnote : forbids : force : : : forced : : : : : : : factor :, : facts :, : factual : : :, failed : fails : fairly : : far :, : : fashion : favor : : : : : : : dispensed : dispose : : : : : : : disposed : disposes : disposing : :, dispute : : : : : :, : disputed : : dissent : distinct : distinction : : : elements : eliminating : embedded :, empowered : empty­handed : ends : enforce :, enforceable : : : : : enforced : : enforcement : enforcing : : English :, enlist : : : : enter : : : : : : :, : event :, : : : : evidence : Forfeited : exact : : forgot : exactly : : Federal : :, : : : form : : :, : Fort : : :, favorable : : : : distinguished : district : : :,,, :,, : : :, : : : : example : : :,, : : : : :,, : : : : : : :, exceptions : exclusive : :,,, exception :, : : : : Excuse : : docket :, doctrine : : entered : : doing : dollars : : entering : : execute : exercise : double­dip : : : : exercising : drive : enters : : entertain : drop : exist : drops : : entitled : :, existed : exclusivity : : duty : E E : :, e­mails : earlier : early : easier : easy : : effect : : : either : : expound : exists : : :, : :,,,, expires : : :, :,, : :, :, :, : : : : : :, : : : :, :, expounding : expounds : extinguished : :, entitlement : : entitles : entry : : F F : : : fact : : : : : : fee : feel : fees :,,, : :, : :, : :,, : :, :, : : fellow : fight : fighting : file : :, : filed : : finances : financial : : :, find : : finding : : :, :, : : Fine : : : finish : first :,, : forth : : forthcoming : forward : found : : : : : : four : frame : freestanding : : :, friend's : Friendly : : : Friendly's : frivolous :, full : : fully : : : functionally : fundamental : : further : : future : : G G : :, :, : Alderson Reporting Company Official : Healthcare :, : : : : : : harmed : :, : :, : : : : : :, : : : : hear : : held : : hill : history : : : : : : : : : hold :, : : : : : holding : holds : home : :,, : Honor : :, : :, :, : : : : : : : : :, : : : : : : : : : : : : :, :, hypothesis : : : hypothesize : Goodbye : goodness : hypothesized : gotten :, : hypothetical : : : : : : : goes : : gamble : Garre : :, :,,, :, :, :,, :,, :, : : : :,, : :, :, :,,, :, : :, :, :, :, : : : going : : :,,, : : : :, :, :,, :, : : : : : : Gomez : : : :, :, :, :, :,,, :,,, :,, good : : Garre's : : General : Genesis :,, grant : :, granted : great : : getting : : GREGORY : :, : : : : : : : : : : grounds : : Ginsburg :,, guise : :, : : : : : : :, : :,, : :,, : give : :, :, : : : : given : : : :, : : gives : : giving : : go : : : guy : H halt : hand : : :,,, : hands : happen : happened : happens : : :, : : hard : : implying : important : : : : : imposed : incentive : : :,, incentives : incentivize : included : includes : including : incorporates : : : independent : : individual : : : : : : : : :, : : : information : inherently :, :, initially : injunction :, : : : : :, :, : :, :, injunctive : injured : : Page  instructed : instructions : instructs : interest : : : :, :, : interested :, : interesting : interests : : :,, internet : interpretation : intervention : invitation : involve : : involved : :, involving : irrevocable : issue : : : : : : : : : :, : issued : : issues : : J Jacobs : join : joinder :, Joint : JONATHAN : injury : : : : :,,, :, :, JOSE : :,,,,, :,,, : :,, :, :, : : : : : : judge : : inquiry : : insist : : insisting : : insists : : instance : judgment : : :,,, :, :,, : : : : : :, :,,,,, I III : :,, : : : : : : : :, :,,, : :, :, :, : : :, : : : : : III's : imagine : : immediately : imminent : immunity : : :, implemented : Alderson Reporting Company Official K : : keep : : justify : : Kennedy : : : :, :, : : : : :, :, :, :, :,, : :,,, :,,, : : : : : : : : : : : :,,, :,, : :, : : :,, :,, : : : : :, :, :,, : :, :, :, : : :,, :, :,, :,,,, KAGAN : : :,,, :,, : :, :, :,,,, :,,,, : :, :,,,, :,,,, :,, :,, :, :, :,, : :, :, :,, : :, :, :,, : :,,, :,,,, : :,, :,,, :,, :, :,, : :,,, :,,, : knows : Knox : :,,, :,,, : Kokkonen : :,, : :,,, :,,, :,, : :,, : : :,, : :,, : :,, Laughter :, law : :, :,, : : : : :, :, kettle : key : kind : : know : : : : : : : : :,, : : :, : :, lack : : : : : lacks : :,, : : :, : :, : L :,, : :, : : : : : : : : :,, :,,,, : :,,, : :, :,,,,, : :,,, :,, : :,, : :, :,, : :, : : :, : :, : :,,,, : :, :,, :, : :,, :, :, : : : :, : judgments : : judicata : : : judicial : : : : : jurisdiction : : : : : :,, : : : :,,, : : : :, jurisdictional : : : :, Justice : :, : :,, : : :, : :, :,, : :, : : :,, Page  longstanding : : look : : : : : looked : : looking :, looks : lose : loser : : : loses : lot : : : : lots : lower :, : : : : :,, : lawsuit : lawyer : lawyers : : lead : : : leaving : left : : legal : : : : : : : : legally :, let's : : : : : liabilities : liability : :, madness : M :, : : : liable :, : : maintained : making :, : match : matter : : : : : : : : likes : likewise : lines : liquidated : Md : list :,,, lists : litigant :, litigants : : litigate : : litigating : : : : : :, :, : : : means :,, mean : : : : : litigation : : measure : : : : mechanics : : :, : mechanism : : : : : : little : : : : live : : : :, long : :, :, longer : : : meet : member : members : :, :, mention : mentioned : mere : : : meritless : Alderson Reporting Company Official Page  : : moment : N N :, : merits : : : :, :, :, money : : : : : :, : : : : name :, : :, narrow : :, : :, : : :,,,, Navy :, :, : : :,, : : :,, : : : : : : : : need : : : messages : : :, : : : necessary : : : non­moot : moot : :, :,,,, :, : : met : middle : MindMatics : :, : needed : : : : needs : : : : never :, : : : : :,, : : : : : :,, : nineteenth : :, :, Ninth : : :, : : :, : : : non : : :, : :, : normally : : : :, : MindMatics' : minutes : mislead : Mitchell : : :,, : :, :, : :,,, : :,, : : :, nullity : :,, : :,, :, mooted : : number : : :,, mooting :, :, :, O : : okay : : : :,, mootness : obey : : : : :,,, :,,,, obligation : : :, : :,, : :, : :,,, obstinacy : : :, :,,,, : :, :,,, : :,, obstreperous : old : :, : :,,,, :, : : obtained : : :,, obtaining : : : : : :, :, occurred : : : :, :, occurring : :,, : moots : : : : : October : :,, : :,, : morning : :,,,, motion :,, offer :, :, opinion : : :,, :, move : : :, :, moves : :,, : multiple : :,,, :, : :, :, :,,, :,,, :,,,,, opt­in : :,, :,, : ones : ongoing : opening : mutual : mutually : : : : once : : opted : odd : : O Alderson Reporting Company : options : ought : outcome : : :,,,, :, :,, oral : :,, : : : :,, : : : : order : : : : : ordering : :, : :, :, : : : :,, : : :,, :, :, : : : : :, :, : :, : : : : page : :, : : :,, : : : : : offered : : P : Pablo : : : : : : owes : P :, : : pages : : : : paid : : : : : :,, : : : :, : paper : :, :, : : : pardon : : : offers :, oh : : : particular : part : : : : :, parties :, : : : : : :,, :, party : : : : : party's : payment :, : : : : : : : : : : pay : : : : : : :,, : : : opinions : opportunity : pennies : opposed : people : : : : : performed : Official presents : press : pretrial : pretty : : prevent : permissive :, permit : person : : plenty : : please : : : : personal : : :,,, : Petition :, : : : Petitioner :, :, : : : picking : : :, piece : Pitts : place :, plaintiff :, plus : point :, : : : : prevents : : :,, principle :, : : :, : : : : : : : : : : : probably : : problem : pointed : points : policy :,, poor : position : : : procedural : :, Procedure : : : : : : proceed : : : : : : :, : : :, : proceeding : : proceedings : potential :, : proceeds : promises : proof : proper : : : :,, : :,, :, :, :, : possibility : :, :, possible : : : :, possibly : :,, : :, :, power : : :, :, :,,,, : : :,, powerful : :, :, :, :, : :, : :,, : : : : : :, :, practice : : : : : :,, :,,, :,,, : precise : :, : :, : : : : : : preclusion : prejudice : powers : practical : practices : precedent : : : : plaintiff's : plaintiffs : premise : : prerogative : : : properly : proposition : propositions : prospective : : : : protracted : prove :, : provide :, : : : : provided : : proving : provision : : : : present : : plead :, pleading : : presentation : presented : : :, purpose : : : purposes : Page  : : pursuant : pursue : put : : : puts : putting :, : : : : :, reasons : : : : : REBUTTAL : : Q receive : : : : : : : received :, :,, : question :, : : : : : : :, :, receiving : : : : : : : recognize : : : : : :, : : : : :, :, recognized : : :, :, : : : :, : : :,, : : questions : recognizing : recognizes : qui : quibble : quite : : : : : : : record : : : recover : recur : red : redress : : Redressability : redressed : reference : referring : reflects : : refused : : :,, : R : railroad :, raise : : : R : raised : : read : ready : real : : : realize : : really : : : :, : : reason : : : refusing : : rehearsed : reject : : relate : : related : relation : : : relevant : : relied : relief :, : :, : Alderson Reporting Company Official : saddle : : : : : :,, sake : : :,,, :, :, San : :, :, :, :, : : : : :,, : : :, : : : satisfaction : satisfied :, : : : saying : : : : : :, : :, : : : : says :, : Page  separate : : :,, sequitur : set : settle : : : : settled : : settlement : : :,,,,, : :,, : : : :,, : :, :, : :, :, :,, : Scalia : : : : :,, settlements : :,,, : : : : : : : : : :, : : : :, : settles : shaky : share : sharing : : show : :, shown : shows : side : : : : : :,,, : : :,,, : :,, :,,,, : :,, :, :, :, :, situation : :, : sides : : simply : : : : : : : : scope : second : : : :, : : : : : : :, :,, : : : : : : : : : : : :, Sixth : : so­called : solely : : Solicitor : solvent : somebody : : : soon : : : request : requested :, requests : require : requirement : : : : requirements : : :, : reputable : : :,, :, : :,, : : : : :, : : :,, :, :, : :,, : :, : : :, : : : :, :, : :,, : :,,, reserve : :, :, resolution : : : :, : resolve : :, :, : : : resolves : resources : : respect : Respondent : res : : : requires : : : : :, :, ROBERTS : : :, : : : : :,,, :,,,, : :, :,, : :,,,, :,,,, : :, :,,,, :,,, : :, :,, : :, : :, : : :, : : Respondent's relying : : remainder : remaining : remains : remarkable : : Respondents : rolling : remedied : remedies : remedy :, : : response : : : : responses : result : : : :, remember : render : renders : reneging : reoccur : repeatedly : : :, repetition : reply : : representative : rid : : results : retained : retains : retrospective : return : review : : Roper :,, : : : : Roper's : rule :,,,, :, :, : : : : : : : : : :, : : :, : : :, ruled :, rules :, : secure : : see : : : :, : : :, : :, : :, represented : : right : :, : : : : :, :, :, : : : : : : : : ruling : run : S S : : : : seek : seeking : : send : senders : sends : Alderson Reporting Company sorry : : : :, : : : : subject : stopped : stopping : Official : technically : tell :, : subject­matter : sorts :, Sotomayor : : : :, : :,, :, :, : :, : :,, :,,,, :,,, : Sotomayor's : sound : sovereign : specifically : : spite : stack : stage : :, stages : stake : : :,,, : :,, standing : :,,,, : Stanford : start : : started : starts : State : stated : States :,, : : : status : :, statute : statutory : : : stepping : stigma : stipulate : stipulation : : stop : : : submission : submit : submitted :, substantive : :, sue : sued : : suffered : suffice : sufficient :, : : : suggested : sum : summary :, : supporting : : : suppose : : : : supposed : Supreme :, sure : : surrender : surrenders : T T :, table : take : : : : : : : : : : takes : talked : : talking : : : : : : tam : TCPA : : : technical : temporary : tender : :, : : : tendered : : tenders : terminating : terms : : :, : : : : : : : : : text :, Thank : : :, :, : : theory : : thing : : : : : :, : : : things : : :,, : : :, travel : trebled : trial : : : tried :, trivial : true : truly : think : :,, : : :, :, :, : : : : : : trump : : : : : : : :, : :,, : : :, : : : : : : : : :,, : : : : :,, :, try : trying : turned : turns : twice : : two :, : type : : types : thinking : third : U unaccepted : Page  Thomas' : thought : : : : : : : : unconditional : : thousand : three :, : unconditionally : :, : : throw : throwing : thrown :, : underlying : understand : understanding :, undisputed : : throws : : undo : time : : undoes : : : : undone : unicorn :, : unilaterally : United :,, times : today : : topics : touts : towel : traceable : transitory :, use : : : : unusual : : upheld : usage : utterly : V v : : vacatur : vague : value : vehicle : verge : vicarious : : : vicariously : : victory : view : : : : : : violation : virtually : :,, voluntarily : : voluntary : : : : : : Alderson Reporting Company Page  Official : : : ­ : : : s : : : : : : :, : : : : a :,, : : : : a : : a : : :,, : : :, : : : : (c) : : s : W waivable : waived : : walking : want : : : : : :, : : : : : : : :,, : : : : :, :, :, : :, : : wanted : : : : wants : : : : :, :, : :, :, : Washington :, wasn't : : : : wasteful : way : : : : : : :, : ways : we'll : : we're : : : : : : :, : : : : : :, : :,, : we've : : : : : : : : : Wednesday : weight : went : : : : : weren't : win : winner : : :, withdrawn : wonder : words : : : : : : : worried : would­be :, wouldn't : : : : : write : : : : wrong : : : : : : : X x :, :, Y Yang : : :,, : :,, : : :,, :,,,, :, :, :, : :, : Z , : , : : , :,, :, :, : : : : : : : (b)() : Alderson Reporting Company 