Official ­ Subject to Final Review        IN THE SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES        ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ x                                  ENCINO MOTORCARS, LLC,               :             Petitioner,               : No. ­         v.                          HECTOR NAVARRO, ET AL.,                           Respondents.           : : : ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ x                                                         Washington, D.C.                         Wednesday, April ,                  The above­entitled matter came on for oral       argument before the Supreme Court of the United States         at : a.m.   APPEARANCES: PAUL D. CLEMENT, ESQ., Washington, D.C.; on behalf of            Petitioner. STEPHANOS BIBAS, ESQ., Philadelphia, Pa.; on behalf of           Respondents. ANTHONY A. YANG, ESQ., Assistant to the Solicitor        General, Department of Justice, Washington, D.C.; for       United States, as amicus curiae, supporting Respondents.       Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review                                    C O N T E N T S ORAL ARGUMENT OF                                      PAGE PAUL D. CLEMENT, ESQ.       On behalf of the Petitioner                            ORAL ARGUMENT OF   STEPHANOS BIBAS, ESQ.      On behalf of the Respondents                           ORAL ARGUMENT OF   ANTHONY A. YANG, ESQ.       For United States, as amicus curiae,         supporting the Respondents                           REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF   PAUL D. CLEMENT, ESQ.       On behalf of the Petitioner                            Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review                                       P R O C E E D I N G S                                            (: a.m.)              CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: We'll hear argument       next in Case ­, Encino Motorcars v. Navarro.                    Mr. Clement.              ORAL ARGUMENT OF PAUL D. CLEMENT                     ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONER                  MR. CLEMENT: Mr. Chief Justice, and may it        please the Court:               Service advisors are salespeople principally     engaged in the servicing of automobiles. I do not think            there is any realistic dispute here that service        advisors are, in fact, salespeople. And it seems clear          to me that service advisors, as their name suggests, are          principally engaged in the servicing of automobiles.                   Thus, under the plain and literal terms,       of ­­ of the statutory overtime exemption, these        individuals are exempt because the statute exempts any        salesperson, mechanic, or partsman who are primarily       engaged in selling or servicing an automobile, a truck,          or a farm implement.                 Now, my friends on the other side will        essentially concede that those last three statutory       nouns ­­ automobiles, trucks, and farm implements ­­       apply to every other noun­verb combination in the        Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review statute. So they don't take the position, for example,          that trucks and farm implements only go with servicing         and automobiles only goes with selling.                  But they do take the position that, with        respect to the gerund "selling," that it goes uniquely         with salesmen, and therefore, even if you accept for a          minute that there is a class of people who exist who are             salesmen primarily engaged in the servicing of       automobiles, my friends would say they're not covered by         the statute.              Now, I would submit that the statute has         multiple textual indicators of breadth that suggests       that's not the right way to interpret the statute.         There are not ­­               JUSTICE GINSBURG: Mr. Clement, may I ask         you, what is the significance of the position you are          taking? Does it have any real consequences, given the          separate exemption for people who are working on        commission?             MR. CLEMENT: It ­­ it does ­­ it does have           real­world consequences, Justice Ginsburg, principally     for those service advisors who right now are not         compensated on a commission basis.                  JUSTICE GINSBURG: And what ­­ in ­­ in this          field, what percentage of service advisors are not        Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review commissioned rather than salaried employees?                 MR. CLEMENT: Justice Ginsburg, I don't have         a specific statistical breakdown, but I'm reliably       informed that it's a significant number. So it's not           that almost everybody is on a commissions basis and          there's a couple of outliers who are primarily salaried.                         I do think the ­­ the archetypical service      advisor is paid on a commission basis, and therefore ­­          what I take to be the import of your question ­­ might             also qualify under the (i) exemption that's generally        applicable across industries to commissioned     individuals.             But there are significant numbers of      individuals who are primarily compensated for salary,       and they like it that way. And of course, as I think              the Court is aware, these Fair Labor Standard Act rules          are not waivable. So if you have a service advisor            who's been paid primarily by salary and likes the         stability that comes with that, they've had that ­­                    JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: That's every employee.                  MR. CLEMENT: What's that?                 JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: That's every employee      who's salaried. They ­­ if they want a job, it's a job,               and unless the law protected them, no employer would pay          overtime. Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review             MR. CLEMENT: Well, I understand that,        Justice Sotomayor. I was ­­                  JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: I don't know how I can           take from the fact that service advisors accept what's         given to them because they have no choice, why they          prefer not to have overtime.                 MR. CLEMENT: I don't know that I was making            that strong claim; I was just trying to be responsive           that this case does have real­world implications       notwithstanding the (i) exemption.                JUSTICE BREYER: So what example ­­ what ­­        if we're only talking about those of the ­­ the people           who sell service who are not on commission, what basis          is there for giving them an exception? Do they work           regular hours? I take it if they work regular hours and             if they aren't paid on commission, why wouldn't they be          treated like secretaries or others?                   I mean, apparently Congress thought that the      mechanics themselves were special because they go out        into agricultural areas or something in the middle of         the night and fix a tractor. So ­­ so they work             irregular hours. But these people don't work irregular         hours and they're not paid on commission. So why          wouldn't they be treated like a secretary or a ­­ you             see, you've got my question.     Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review             MR. CLEMENT: I get your question. I think            I would try to rephrase it slightly by saying why should           they be treated differently from partsmen or mechanics        if they're also paid on a more salaried basis? And so             they don't qualify ­­               JUSTICE BREYER: Well, the answer would be        because the partsmen and mechanics, so Congress thought,        in agricultural areas, would have to go at : in the           morning to fix the tractor, and that's why they get          within this special treatment. And ­­ and whether         that's still true or not, I don't know. But that's why             they're there in the statute, and that isn't true of the           service salesmen.                                      MR. CLEMENT: Here, Justice Breyer ­­      JUSTICE BREYER: Now, what about that?       MR. CLEMENT: Yeah, no, I do want to be very            responsive to that because I do think whatever, you          know, Senator Bayh was thinking about farm implements        back in the day.                JUSTICE BREYER: Right.                MR. CLEMENT: I think today there's a very           good reason to treat the service advisors the same way          as the partsmen and mechanics for purposes of the         overtime exception. So the first thing to focus on here           is that we are talking about an exemption under the FLSA           Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review only to the overtime provisions. So however you decide          this case, minimum­wage provisions are going to apply.                    But here's the reason that all the people on         the service team, the partsmen, the mechanic and the         service advisors, really need this exemption. Because        most customers of auto ­­ automobile dealerships who        need service themselves work pretty regular hours, sort        of : to :, Monday through Friday. So the busy           times at a dealership are what they call the morning           rush and the afternoon discharge for the day. And then           also on Saturday, over percent of automobile        dealerships' service departments are open on Saturdays.                   So with respect to the partsmen, and with        respect to the mechanics, they end up working a little           more than hours a week, because they're there a           little bit earlier than most people, they leave a little           bit later, and then they're there on Saturday.                    Now, most of them in fact are paid at least          partially on commission, and the way most of this works          is that everybody, the partsmen, the mechanics and the         sales advisors, all kind of share in the commission. So           if they bring in a certain amount of sales, they all            share in that.               So as a practical matter, it makes an awful          lot of sense to exempt all of these people from the           Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review overtime rules. They're all paid well. They're all          paid above the minimum wage, which is ­­ the exemption          doesn't apply to anyways ­­ and they all have a reason            to work, like, about , hours a week instead of             hours a week. And it would be very, very disruptive to             all of a sudden take the service advisors, who are an            integral part of the team, and also happen to be the           best paid on average of the three, and say we're going           to pluck you out and you alone are not going to be            exempt from the overtime rules.                   I think that would be very disruptive. And        the industry has understandably come upon these       arrangements during the three­plus decades when my       friends at the Labor Department acquiesced to this        arrangement because they had an interpretive regulation.       They went out and brought some enforcement actions, and         even though it was the Wage and Hour Division themselves          that were litigating these cases, they could not        convince a single Federal judge that they were right          about their interpretation of the statute.                  Now, I think those Federal ­­                  JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: But, Mr. Clement, those       courts were before Chevron.                MR. CLEMENT: Oh, they were, Justice       Sotomayor, but ­­  Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review             JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: So you know, I take less          value in what the courts said because every one of them           said the provision was ambiguous.                 MR. CLEMENT: Well ­­                JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: They just thought that       the better argument ­­ this was before Chevron ­­        favored your interpretation. So I'm ­­ I'm not quite          sure that ­­ that it's accurate to point to those older           cases as supporting your position unequivocally.                  MR. CLEMENT: So Justice Sotomayor, I think         it's fair to take the older cases with one grain of           salt, but I wouldn't take it with two or three. And the              reason is that Chevron, with all due respect, didn't         invent deference to agencies. And that's why I think           it's important to recognize that all those early cases,         those were cases that were enforcement actions brought        by the Wage and Hour Division. And they weren't just           cases where a private party was coming in.                     So I don't think the judges in that case ­­          those cases, when they were sitting there listening to         the Wage and Hour Division lawyers, didn't have some         deference in mind ­­               JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: I have a very practical          question. Are these sales advisors specially trained in         some way? Do they go to mechanic ­­ mechanic school?           Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review Do they ­­ how are they trained?                   MR. CLEMENT: I ­­ I'm ­­ so I'm going a            little bit out of the record here, and I haven't read            anything that's directly on point. My strong suspicion,         though, is that there are these kind of academies that          are put together, including by the National Automobile        Dealers Association. And they would get some training         that included both sales training but also some training         in some diagnostic. But I'm ­­ I want to be candid that              that's ­­ that's ­­               JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Because, to be candid       with you, it scares me to think that every time I take             my car to a dealer, that a non­mechanic is telling me             what's wrong with it.                MR. CLEMENT: Well ­­ and I understand that,          but I think that's actually why these people may be           nonmechanics, but they're not outside the servicing       lane.             JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Well ­­                MR. CLEMENT: And there are costs for ­­ you          know, for the dealers. This is something that, you          know, I'm more familiar with. There are real costs to           the dealership if the original diagnostic is wrong and         they end up ordering the wrong part. All of that is            stuff that they do try to minimize.       Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review             And I do think ­­ to get back to the Chevron            point, though ­­ it's also worth recognizing that two of          the cases that have rejected the Labor Department's        position were post­Chevron cases, both the Fourth       Circuit decision in Walton ­­                JUSTICE GINSBURG: But now the Labor       Department had a chance to rethink. Originally they          said that these people, these salespeople are not        exempt. And then there were these ­­ the letter, the           opinion letter and the handbook. And then in ­­ was it             or ?                           MR. CLEMENT: .    JUSTICE GINSBURG: They said now we're going        to rethink this, and our decision is that we were right           the first time, that these people are not exempt. And           that decision is made in the Chevron era when we defer           to the expert, and this Department of Labor is certainly          expert in this area.                MR. CLEMENT: Well, Justice Ginsburg, I       don't think what the agency did in merits Chevron          deference. And the Labor Department of course asked for          deference, but they're ­­ they're studiously vague about        what they'd like you to defer to.                   And if you look at what they did in , I           don't think there's anything you can really defer to         Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review there. Because up until , the interpretive rights         that date back to had a specific provision, (c)(),           that addressed service advisors, and it explained the        rationale why service advisors weren't exempt. I don't          think it was particularly persuasive to any of the         courts, but at least there was something that addressed         service advisors specifically.               Now, in in the process of this        notice­and­comment rulemaking, they actually removed     that entirely. So the interpretive regs no longer have          anything that addresses the service advisors      specifically. So they're now relying only on the         language in (c)() that addresses salesmen and says        salesman is somebody who sells a car, which we think is            an incomplete recognition of what the statute actually        says.             But what I'm making is really two points. I          don't think they're really entitled to, in , take         something out of the regs and then all of a sudden say,             well, because we took them out of the regs for          notice­and­comment rulemaking, we now get Chevron      deference where previously we might not have.                   JUSTICE KAGAN: I guess I don't understand          that. I mean, it's kind of the case for Chevron            deference and notice­and­comment rulemaking. They      Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review clearly considered exactly this question. They made a         judgment on it. They have effected that judgment within          a notice­and­comments setting. I mean, if that's not          Chevron, what is?               MR. CLEMENT: Well, two things, Your Honor,        and then I want to remind you that if this statute is             clear, you don't get to Chevron.                              JUSTICE KAGAN: Of course.     MR. CLEMENT: But two things cause Chevron.        Here is the first, which is, I would agree with you if             what they did is at the end of the notice­and­comment          rulemaking, they came up with, say, a new definition of           "servicing," and that informed why they came up with the          decision that they did, but that's not what they did.          They came up with a decision that took out the provision            that specifically addressed service advisors, and then a        single paragraph of the preamble to the notice ­­ to the           rules, because there's nothing in the rules that really         addresses it anymore.               So the only thing you can look to is the          preamble. It's on pages C and C of the Appendix of            the red brief. There is one paragraph there that is the            sum total of their explanation. I think it's worth a            read, Your Honor, because what it principally says is,         we're doing this because we don't think the statute         Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review covers it, which is not really the kind of explanation          that I think ought to get them something other than what            the statute means.                           And then this is my second point ­­       JUSTICE KAGAN: Yeah. Because the first one         is not so good. The first ­­ I mean, agencies do this              all the time. They say, this is the way we read the             statute. This is the way we want to read the statute.            And this Court has never been in the business of saying,           oh, when you think that the statute says something, you          don't get deference. Whereas when you think the statute          is ambiguous but you give other reasons, you do get          deference. I mean, that would be a ­­ a completely              unadministrable line to use.                MR. CLEMENT: Well, I don't ­­ I don't want            to quibble too long with you on that. I don't think             that would be unadministrable at all. This Court has          recognized the exact same principal in the hour context,         which is to say that if all you do is parrot the            statute, then that doesn't really gain you any extra         deference, and I think all ­­                  JUSTICE KAGAN: This is not parroting the        statute. This is saying we read this statute in a way             which we think is better than another way.                    MR. CLEMENT: And so I want to get to my            Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review second one. I would just say, though, I do think it's              worth reading that paragraph on C and C, because         particularly in the unique circumstance, and this is the         segue to my second point, in this is a unique           circumstance where every Court that has looked at the         statute, since you first took the position that it meant          X, has said, no, it means not X. To then, just because             you had a rule ­­ a notice­and­comment rulemaking,          which, by the way, started with the proposal to codify          the rule that all the courts had adopted, just because          in that process you say, well, we still think we have           the better view, I don't think that's enough to get you            deference. But even if you disagree with me so far, I            mean, I do think Fox, and State Farm before it, say that             when an agency is changing its position, it has to          account for the reliance interests that have been        engendered. And you'll see nothing in that paragraph         about the fact that, well, for years, we, the Labor           Department, agree that this was clear the other way ­­                     JUSTICE KAGAN: So, I mean, the question is          on the reliance interests, if you think people have been          relying and will be punished for that reliance. And I           guess the question to you is, well, why would that be           so? Because this rule applies not retroactively but         only prospectively, and there is a particular provision         Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review in the Portal­to­Portal Act, which essentially says if        you relied on an old interpretation, don't worry. You          won't be subject to any damages with respect to that          interpretation.               MR. CLEMENT: So two points on that, Your       Honor. The first is, just to be clear, the complaint in            this case was filed in September . It didn't say           and we hereby seek damages only after the May          effective date of the regulation. So in terms of what           we're facing with here, I mean, you'd at least have to            trim it back based on the Portal­to­Portal Act        provision.             But here's the reason I think even that's         nonresponsive to what the dynamic here is. And it's a           pretty unique dynamic, I'll grant you. With this         acquiescently circuit cases. I mean, my ­­ my clients           are in the Ninth Circuit, but I think this is even            clearer.             Think about a dealership in the Fourth and         the Fifth Circuits, okay? They already have circuit         precedent that says that the service advisors are        exempt. Now, if all the agency does in a rulemaking is             says, gosh, darn it, we still think we have the better           view, what are they supposed to do? Are they really           supposed to change their operations overnight and       Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review conform to this, even though they have an extant circuit          precedent that says they're right and the Labor        Department's wrong? And that is what, at least in this           narrow circumstance, makes this different. I mean, if          they had come in and say, boy, we are going to come up             with a whole new C, and we are going to have a new               explanation for why these guys are exempt, then maybe         the auto dealers in the Fourth and Fifth Circuit would          think, well, this is a whole new day. Maybe we better             change our practices.               But I would have a hard time advising a           client in the Fourth or Fifth Circuit that you ought to           change your practices, notwithstanding that Walton is       still on the books, notwithstanding that the Fifth        Circuit decision is still on the books.                   JUSTICE KAGAN: Well, I suspect, Mr.        Clement, you would say to your clients, you know, you          are taking a risk because now the agency has changed           their minds. And so going forward, don't worry. You're           off the hook with respect to everything you've done in          the past. But going forward, given this doctrine called          Chevron Deference, the agency is going to get a thumb on            the scales, and it's very possible that you're going to,          you know, be subject to damages if you keep doing what           you're doing.  Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review             MR. CLEMENT: Well, Justice Kagan, I try to          be a careful lawyer. So I probably would tell my             clients there is now some additional risk than there was          before. But, boy, if you have a lot of workers who             really like the fact that they are compensated mostly by          salary and they're service advisors, I'm not sure I'd go          through all of the trouble of reorienting all of them          and putting them on a commission basis so we can get on             to (i) and get the benefit of that exemption just          because the Labor Department has told us that after          years of acquiescence, that when they had an NPR that          told us they were going to codify their acquiescence,         that they changed their mind on no better analysis than          to simply say, you know, we like our position back from           . I would probably tell them if you want to be             really, really careful, you should change your policy.        But I like our chances in the courts.                     And I would tell them as well, that don't          worry too much about Chevron, because I really don't          think the statute is ambiguous at all. I think the            literal reading of the statute makes it crystal clear         that if you are a salesman primarily engaged in          servicing automobiles, you come within the plain terms        of the statute. "Or" means "or" in that context. And            even if in ­­ in the course of advising them, I would             Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review have come across the Reddendo canon last used by this          Court in , I would have said, well, don't worry           about that either because what the Reddendo canon, all         it does is it says, when you're reading a statute and it             has a bunch of nouns separated by "or" and a bunch of              verbs separated by "or" and you apply them all as you           should, if you get to something that just is a barking            cat, there is just no such thing, then all the Reddendo           canon says is, don't lose a lot of sleep over it. Go on               to the next noun/verb combination and continue to        interpret the statute. Don't like completely reorder        the way you're thinking about the statute and say now          because I came across a barking cat, I could put the              first noun with the first verb and the second noun with           the second verb and, well, if I had two ­­ three nouns             and two verbs, I ­­ I don't know what I'd do ­­ throw up                my hands ­­              JUSTICE GINSBURG: If I may, given the         grammar for a moment, just on a fact question: You said              there weren't ­­ the parts and the partsmen and the          mechanics, they ­­ they were ­­ they all work no more           than a ­hour work week, and you mentioned .                      There was something in the submissions here       that said the service advisors are working a        :­a.m.­to­:­p.m. shift, and so it would come, on        Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review average, to hours more.                                         MR. CLEMENT: Yeah. Justice ­­      JUSTICE GINSBURG: Is that incorrect?      MR. CLEMENT: Well, I think what I recall           from the complaint is it was ­­ is that it was : to             :, and so that would still get you ­­ if you don't            rotate them around, that might get you a ­hour          workday. What I was doing on the hours is I think               that's in the National Automobile Dealers Association       amicus brief as the average kind of system­wide.                    JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Were ­­ in , were        there service advisors in existence?                 MR. CLEMENT: Yes, there were.                  JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: And were they paid the        same way as now? Were they salaried, or commissioned?                      MR. CLEMENT: I think there was a mix back            then, as there is now.                 JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: I went to the Dictionary         of Occupations, which was in existence in , and it          appears to have different entries for salesmen, service        advisors, partsmen, mechanic. Do I read something from          the fact that ­­ or should I read something, or why            can't I read something ­­ from the fact that Congress           knew that these different positions existed, they were        defined in the Dictionary of Occupations differently,       Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review and it decided to use only "salesmen," which under the          dictionary meant a salesperson of cars; a "partsmen,"          which was defined the way one would think; and a          "mechanic," but it didn't include sales advisors.                   MR. CLEMENT: Well, here's what I would say          that you should read into that, Justice Sotomayor, which         is you should read into the fact that Congress used the           term "any" and "any salesmen," and then modified it not          just by selling vehicles, but also by servicing        vehicles, to think that Congress didn't need to        separately add the service advisors in, because they        were already covered by the language of the statute.                       I would also ­­              JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: But they thought it       important. The partsmen could arguably service       automobiles because they provide the parts for the        automobile, yet Congress found the need to be explicit         and to add partsmen. Why wouldn't it have ­­ if it's            intended to include service advisors as opposed to        mechanics and partsmen, why didn't it use that        occupational term? It's a term of art.                     MR. CLEMENT: Well, Justice Sotomayor, I       don't think if they had omitted the partsmen, I think it            would be an awfully hard argument to say that the          partsmen are mechanics. I mean, you could make it, and,            Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review you know, I'm not so sure I wouldn't try, but I think it               would be a much harder argument than to say that the            service advisors are covered by the term ­­                   JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Except the dictionary      doesn't use the words ­­ the functions as functions of          selling a car. And ­­ and it doesn't use the word             "service" in a traditional sense. It says it's going to            evaluate cars, it's going to give the work to mechanics,          but it doesn't use the word "servicing" a car.                      MR. CLEMENT: Which doesn't, the ­­                  JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: The occupational     handbook.             MR. CLEMENT: Well, I mean, I guess I would             still say, though, the question ­­ I'd make         two points,  one I've already made, which is I do think,           since they  used any salesman, I think they thought that          they already had it covered.                The second thing I would say is           I think if  they were going to include service advisors        into the  statute, I think what the statute would say          is exactly  what it says now, which is it would say "any           salesman, service advisor, partsman, or mechanic engaged" ­­      "primarily engaged in" ­­ "in selling or servicing        automobiles," trucks, or farm implements.                 And what I think that shows is that there's          Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review nothing at all unnatural to say that the service         advisors are primarily engaged in servicing automobiles.       That is what they do. They're part of the servicing           process.             The way I would think about this is if you           imagine a very small automobile dealership and they have          one person in the service department. That person is          going to come out. They're going to greet the customer.           They're going to work with the customer to diagnose what          the problem is.               Once they figure out what the problem is,        they'll give them an estimate. Then if they have to fix            a part, they'll go in the back, they'll grab the part,           then they'll take the part, and then they'll put it in           the car and they'll fix the part. And then they'll go            back and talk to the customer and tell them what they           did.             Now, in a modern automobile dealership, all        of that is done by three different people working as a           team. And it seems to me quite clear that the service            advisors are part of that servicing process.                   Indeed, my friends on the other side I think          almost give us that, which is to say ­­ they seem to            come close to saying that if the statute said         "salesman... primarily engaged in" the servicing      Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review process, they would grant us that the ­­ that the sales           advisors are covered.                 I mean, they can quibble if they want, but        that's the way I read the position. They simply say,            but the statute doesn't say "process." And so what they           have in mind is the statute must mean something very          narrow by servicing. This is that you have to be under            the hood or grease under your nails or something like          that.             And the big problem with that is the        partsmen. The partsmen are no more in the main, under           the hood, or getting their nails dirty by actually         servicing the automobile, but they are an integral part         of the servicing process. And because they're covered,         I think we know that Congress used the term "servicing"          in a more capacious sense and not in some narrow sense            that you have to do the servicing personally.                                If I could reserve the balance in my time.          CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, counsel.                   Mr. Bibas.              ORAL ARGUMENT OF STEPHANOS BIBAS                   ON BEHALF OF THE RESPONDENTS                 MR. BIBAS: Mr. Chief Justice, and may it         please the Court:               The FLSA exempts salesmen who sell cars and        Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review partsmen and mechanics who service cars. Service        advisors don't sell cars. Nor do they service cars,          which requires automotive manual labor. They merely        write up paperwork.               Petitioner's argument fails for three     reasons: First, selling services is not the same thing          as servicing. Petitioner's argument is an end­run        around the statute's three direct objects of selling:        Cars, trucks, and farm implements. Selling services is         not listed.              Second ­­             JUSTICE ALITO: Could you pick up where        Mr. Clement left off? What would be the ­­ what is the             basis for covering partsmen?                MR. BIBAS: Yes, Your Honor. Several. The          first one is, unlike service advisors, they're expressly        named in the statute.                Secondly, they're working as mechanics'     right­hand men or women. Some partsmen grind down parts          or build them up. Some use calipers and measure how           they fit on cars. Some of them remanufacture parts.          They use brake drum lathes and engine head grinders and          valve refacers.              Even those who are not are involved with ­­        with mechanics in requisitioning and dispensing parts.       Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review               JUSTICE ALITO: Well, as to those who are       not, as to those who obtain parts, don't change the          parts, supply the correct part to the mechanic, they         would still be engaged in servicing automobiles, you        would say?              MR. BIBAS: If they are physically       dispensing the parts, handing them over, and doing so in          sync with the mechanic's work. So take a transmission           job. If an automatic transmission is being redone, the          partsman has to know that the mechanic first needs to          build the clutch units. So he first dispenses the          clutch disks and plates and the clutch drum bushings.                     The mechanic is working on them. The        partsman goes back, gets the remainder of the automatic         transmission assembly, and goes and hands them to the         mechanic. This is a back and forth. It's a            mechanic­facing role, not a customer­facing role.                   JUSTICE ALITO: Yes. They are ­­ they are          more closely connected with the actual repairs of the         car. There's no question about that. But they are not            engaged in manual labor. That type of partsman is not           engaged in actually doing anything physically with the        car.             So if they are covered, if that's ­­ if         servicing automobiles includes that, then you have to        Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review explain why the line is drawn between that activity and          the activity of the ­­ of the employees who are at issue            here.             MR. BIBAS: I have a couple of responses.           The first one is if there's a line to be drawn, that of              course is for the agency.                 Secondly, I would say that they are engaged         in the dictionary definition, repairing or maintaining       automobiles. And in the reply belief, at page ,          Petitioner comes very close to conceding, well, they're        not repairing in the way that repairing ­­ servicing is          used in several other statutes that we cite. But our           theory is they are part of this general process, or          integral on core sales and service, which they're adding         to the statute.               The only way that Petitioner manages to add        that to the statute is saying that the phrase "engaged          in" somehow broadens the ordinary meaning of servicing.        But it doesn't, for three reasons.                  The dictionary definitions cited by the      government engaged in means employed in or taking part.         So then Petitioner falls back and says, well, the FLSA,          when it uses "engaged in" means something broader. They          cite a definition provision, (j) in the reply brief.          And they say that the definition means that "engaged in"          Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review includes any closely­related process.                So we pulled the actual subsection which       says precisely the opposite of that. It does not          provide separate definitions of "produced" and "engaged       in producing," as Petitioner's quotation suggests. It        defines "produced" equal as "engaged in the production        of goods" if the subject is engaged in doing the action.                       Now, what that section says that actually       broadens it is language Petitioner doesn't quote. It         says, "An employee shall" ­­                CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: I'm sorry. Can you         tell us where you're reading from, if this is available          to us?              MR. BIBAS: Okay. This is U.S.C. (j).          It's the Petitioner's reply brief at page .                    CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you.                  MR. BIBAS: But the ­­ they don't quote the          section of full. If you look at U.S.C. (j), it            says "An employee shall be deemed to have been engaged          in production if employed in a related process." It is            the deeming that sweeps in closely related processes.        It's not the language of "engaged."                  And then we look at this Court's case law         interpreting that very provision. So this Court has         interpreted that provision as contrasting the narrower       Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review phrase, "actually engaged in production," with the       broader phrase, "every process or occupation affecting       production." That's this Court's case, Farmers       Reservoir, U.S. at to .                   So far from proving that "engaged in" opens        the door to the ill­defined "process of servicing,"        Section (j) and this Court's precedent confirm that        it does not broaden the verb "servicing." And         "servicing" means repairs, maintenance, and similar      automotive manual labor.               Now ­­             CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, is it just ­­        I suspect it differs from place to place and how many           people they have and all that, but why is it ­­ I mean,              are these the people that when you go in, and you know,            you go and say the car's making a funny noise or            something, do they go out and look at the car, listen to            the noise? What's it ­­ I mean, that seems to me to be               more like a process. And then they go to the mechanic             and say, well, you need to do this, or you want to look             at this or whatever.                            MR. BIBAS: So my understanding is ­­       CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: No. I'm just trying         to ­­ you earlier said they're just doing paperwork, and          I'm trying to put a finger on exactly how much they do             Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review with that and how much they do the other.                     MR. BIBAS: Right. So my understanding is         that the important difference between service advisors       and partsmen, to answer both questions together, the        service advisor is a customer­facing role. He's         advising the customer, not advising the mechanic. Goes         up to the customer, has a clipboard, records whatever          symptoms the customer says; it's making a squealing         noise, or it's not driving well.                  Now, only in that sense is he recording        something with the automobile. He's not going under the          hood. He's not taking parts apart. He's not rendering           a final diagnosis on which the work will be based. He            relays that information back. It's the mechanic who         hooks the car up to the ­­                  JUSTICE KENNEDY: No, no. You've missed ­­                    JUSTICE GINSBURG: If ­­                JUSTICE KENNEDY: You've missed a process.        And some of us up here are experts in having to go to             auto agencies and coming back.                 (Laughter.)             MR. BIBAS: Yes.                JUSTICE KAGAN: The first thing he does is         give you an estimate.                MR. BIBAS: Yes.    Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review             JUSTICE KENNEDY: And ­­ both in cost and in          time, and make recommendations for, well, maybe you        should replace it, and it would cost you X dollars.           So ­­ so just to say that he puts something and then            it's up to the mechanic, that's incorrect.                   MR. BIBAS: You are correct, Your Honor.        The ­­ he's giving a preliminary estimate based on we           think the squealing noise means you need a new timing           belt. That's how much it would cost. Have you had your             brakes done, et cetera?                But it goes back to the mechanic. And the          mechanic may come back and say, no, actually, you need          an overhaul or something else, after going under the         hood.             CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: I don't mean to be          too particular, but if there's a squealing sound and it           might be the fan belt, you're saying he's not going to           open the hood and look at the fan belt?                     MR. BIBAS: Well, he's not ­­ he's not going          to be measuring the tension on the fan belt, touching          the fan belt, doing any of that. That's back in the            shop bay. For liability reasons, they can't do the work           in the front. The insurance requires all of that be           done in the back, is my understanding.                   JUSTICE GINSBURG: What ­­    Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review MR. BIBAS: The question ­­     JUSTICE GINSBURG: But how would you                               describe what this employee is engaged in? You say he's           not engaged in selling cars and he's not engaged in          servicing cars. So what is it, what other category is           there other than selling and servicing?                  MR. BIBAS: There are people in auto        dealership who do lots of things that might be part of a            general process. The Petitioner leaves the impression        that there are three or four kinds of employees and          you're just carving one out from an otherwise exempt         unit. There are at least categories of employees in           the service department, as the Machinists' brief       explains. There are dozens of kinds of employees in the           sales Department, in parts, in used cars, in leasing.         And so they may be engaged in this selling of services,           but even if they are, selling services is not the same           as servicing.              JUSTICE BREYER: Suppose you say ­­ you        phone them up and you say, I'd like the servicing          Department, please.              MR. BIBAS: Yes.                JUSTICE BREYER: Someone answers the phone,       hello. Who are you? I'm ­­ I'm ­­ I'm the service ­­             what do you call those persons?      Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review MR. BIBAS: Service advisor.     JUSTICE BREYER: Yeah, service advisor. Are                                you engaged in servicing? Why would I be here if I             wasn't engaged in servicing? I'd be over in the selling           Department.                I think you read this either way, frankly.      I mean, I ­­ I don't really ­­ I can't get too far with                 language, which is why I have a question which isn't            related to language.               MR. BIBAS: I would say if ­­ if you don't            think it's clear, of course Chevron deference ­­                   JUSTICE BREYER: Yeah, well, that's the       question. And I don't hold you responsible for knowing           every word I've written in every case, but still, I did            in Fox make a point of an administrative rule that I            think is important, an administrative law rule, that        when an agency changes its mind, it should explain it.          And I probably in Fox thought that more than many of my             colleagues. All right?                Given my position there, and here we have        the agency going along and issuing a manual where they           say the opposite of what you're saying now. And then we            see what happened when after years they changed their          mind. And I ­­ I thought Mr. Clement was right, and if               you read their reason, their reason happens to be this:          Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review The Fourth Circuit says the opposite, but we think not.                      Now, I know they didn't use those words, but          I wouldn't call that or the equivalent a reason. And ­­            and so is there somewhere in this document, C through,          you know, , is there somewhere a reason why they           changed their mind other than, oh, we think this is a           better interpretation? Because that doesn't address the        problem that I thought was at issue in Fox. And if I              were to use one word to describe that problem, it is the            word they've used. It's called reliance. I'm not          saying it predominates, but doesn't the agency at least         have to address it?                MR. BIBAS: Your Honor, there are about four         questions in there, if I might take them in turn.                       You asked about your own writing and your        own position on reliance. I'd point to your own opinion           in Long Island Care, where first of all you took the           position that intermediate agency enforcement changes      its set of rules, and it's ­­ Smiley, the Court said the            same thing ­­ don't count as changes of position in the           first place.              JUSTICE BREYER: I ­­ that's a good point,           and I don't know how absolute we ought to be there.            And ­­ and the reason this is now facing me with that            problem. Of course they can't do everything for every          Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review employee in the agency, and they get all kinds of          informal advice. It's a practical problem.                    But here we have a kind of extreme,          years, manuals, noting explicitly that it's a change          of position. I mean, it's not just one part of the             agency can't always be consistent with every other part,         so that's exactly what you put your finger on that I ­­            why I asked the question.                              MR. BIBAS: Okay.    JUSTICE BREYER: And the fact that I said it           that way that time at most is going to show I'm not            always perfectly consistent, which is ­­ I'll admit.                    MR. BIBAS: I think Your Honor was also          correct in saying in Long Island Care that the         notice­and­comment rulemaking process makes any ­­ the       potential for any unfair surprise unlikely.                  It's also quite noteworthy in the reliance       area that, as the professor's brief pointed out, in the          several days after the April rule was promulgated,         even before its effective date, counsel below for        Petitioners and a number of other law firms and          Petitioners' amicus in that were all publicizing to the         members: This new rule came out. It's becoming          effective in a month. You need to take account of that.                         You also had a component in your question         Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review that was about the basis for the rulemaking and for the           changes in position. It's not just the paragraph at          page C to C of our brief. The two pages before that,             from C to C, have the comments, there were seven          comments that addressed this issue; five of them favored         the position that the agency ­­                 JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Could you give me the        pages where it's in your brief?                  MR. BIBAS: The back of the red brief. The           pages C to C is the reasoning. So at the bottom of             C, the agency says "and as commentators point out," so          it's incorporating by reference the two pages of        comments discussion that preceded it. And on the         previous pages, such as page C, several of the amici ­­          sorry, no, the commenters point out there are line         drawing problems here: These are not classic mechanics         or servicers. They are just coordinating. They have          this administrative function. They're not ­­ just        because they're integrated doesn't make them in fact        selling or servicing. In essence ­­                  JUSTICE BREYER: Why did they change? As         the commentators point out, then they go on to say what           it is in that sentence that the commentators point out.          So I agree, other people agreed with them, sure, that's           true. But the question is, why the change?         Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review             And I do get this. We changed it because we            think that we're more consistent than the statute than         we used to think that was consistent with the statute.          I'll go that far. And now I have to figure out, is that               a good enough reason.                            MR. BIBAS: There's ­­    JUSTICE BREYER: We didn't think it then,        but we think it now.                             MR. BIBAS: There's more ­­     JUSTICE BREYER: And that's ­­ is there        anything else?              MR. BIBAS: There's more, Your Honor. On         page C NELA points out some line drawing problems. The            opinion letter had some ­­ it had drawn a line            between warranty work versus non­warranty work because       presumably the warranty work was sold previously and        you're not selling it now. And there are administrative          problems with drawing these kinds of lines. It's         cleaner and simpler for the agency to revisit the issue          for the first time with notice­and­comment rulemaking       and say, let's just treat these people as a class and            not require bookkeeping of what's warranty versus       nonwarranty work.              So when NELA makes the line drawing       reference in there, I think that's what it's referring          Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review to, and the agency is saying, just as a class, they're            not selling vehicles; they're not servicing vehicles.       They're selling the servicing of vehicles.                  JUSTICE KAGAN: If I might: Mr. Clement          suggested that you might be seeking damages for pre­         conduct. Are you?                MR. BIBAS: Our complaint was filed in        September . The two­year limitations period goes        back to September . We have noted that as for           anything before the effective date of this new        regulation, May , , the Portal­to­Portal Act could        be pled and it could perhaps be proven. That's an issue            for remand; it's not in this case at this stage. But            Congress has dealt with this issue, and there's nothing         retroactive about applying a regulation.                   JUSTICE KENNEDY: Is that the good­faith       reliance provision?              MR. BIBAS: Yes, that's U.S.C. .                    JUSTICE KENNEDY: And is that applicable ­­       is that an open issue on remand?                   MR. BIBAS: That's an issue ­­ it hasn't         been pled; it's an open issue on remand.                    JUSTICE KENNEDY: And that's both as to        pre­ and post ­­ post­ damages?                  MR. BIBAS: It's not ­­ not as to post May           Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review , , because the opinion letter has no force past          the effective date of the new regulation.                   CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: I'm sorry. You were         about to say there's nothing retroactive about ­­                   MR. BIBAS: About applying a regulation         to post­ conduct. The only ­­ the government's         brief deals with this. Well, that the kinds of serious           reliance interest that count for these purposes are        criminal penalties or civil penalties on actions that        were already done before the regulation. And that's ­­                     CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: What about the       damages you're seeking before ?                 MR. BIBAS: The Portal­to­Portal Act may       well be a defense in that situation if they can plead            and prove reliance.               JUSTICE GINSBURG: May I ask ­­                   JUSTICE KENNEDY: But you are seeking       damages?             MR. BIBAS: We have a damages claim, but          they have a defense.                 CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, but even       though the regulation took ­­ the regulation had changed         the interpretation that took effect ?                  MR. BIBAS: The notice­and­comment     regulation took effect May th, .      Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review             CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: And that changed the        Department understanding of the statute.                 MR. BIBAS: It maintained the former       regulation; it rescinded the enforcement materials that       said they would not enforce during that period of time.                      JUSTICE GINSBURG: You ­­                CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: So the Department       said ­­ I just want to get ­­ the Department said they             would not enforce prior to ?                  MR. BIBAS: Yes.                CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: And yet you still        think they should be liable for damages?                   MR. BIBAS: No, there's the Portal­to­Portal       Act ­­             CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, putting      aside ­­ that's a defense. You're saying, well, you           might win on that or you might not. Right?                      MR. BIBAS: Right.                CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: But you still think        they should be liable for damages when the Department         said they were not going to enforce the position that          you're articulating.              MR. BIBAS: Our position is that the defense         may indeed preclude that.                CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, I know, but         Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review I'm asking ­­ so in other words, they may not succeed in            their Portal­to­Portal Act defense, but you nonetheless       think when the Department says, we're not going to         enforce the view, that they're liable for damages        because they didn't take the opposite view.                   MR. BIBAS: We are willing to concede the         pre­ damages.              JUSTICE KENNEDY: Is that at this point or         is that clear from your ­­ has that been your position           all along?              proved.             MR. BIBAS: It's never been pleaded or        JUSTICE GINSBURG: This hasn't been      litigated at all.                           MR. BIBAS: It hasn't been litigated.       JUSTICE GINSBURG: We're dealing with the       threshold issue of how do we categorize these people.                                 MR. BIBAS: Yes.    JUSTICE GINSBURG: And on that, do you        know ­­ I had asked Mr. Clement ­­ what is the universe             of employees we're talking about? How many of these          people would not come out under the ­­ what is it,           (i) because they are commissioned employees?                  MR. BIBAS: Well, there's a wide range of          compensation methods; however, the ­­ most of the ­­ the          Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review range of salaries we're talking about is a broad          dispersion. The bottom percent of service advisors,         based on the figures I've seen, make less than         one­and­a­half times the minimum wage. There are        entry­level jobs at , a year. Those are the people            who are going to be affected by this ruling. Those are            the only ones who would not qualify for a (i) if it             were restructured for commissions.                So we're not talking about the highly paid        ones who the dealerships could exempt under (i) by         structuring it. We're talking about people who are ­­         who are just above the minimum wage, less than         one­and­a­half times above.               If I might deal with a few questions this           Court raised earlier, one of ­­ the partsmen issue, I'd          like to offer an analogy on partsmen. Petitioner's         position is as if you have a statute that speaks of            someone, a doctor engaged in operating, that makes         sense. If the statute says, doctor or nurse engaged in           operating, you'd understand you don't normally think a        nurse operates, but the O.R. nurse is close enough.                     What Petitioner is saying, if you exempt the        O.R. nurse, you also have to exempt the hospital intake          clerk who does paperwork, maybe even the hospital intake         nurse who takes vital signs. There is no reason you           Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review have to expand beyond the operating room, the person who          is right there handing the utensils and scalpels over to          go all the way out to the front office ­­                     JUSTICE ALITO: I'd feel more comfortable       about this if I understood the criteria that Congress          applied in choosing the employees who are covered by         this provision. So take the case of the ­­ the           salesperson who is not working on commission. Why did          Congress include that employee within this category?       And what is different about employees of that nature         from service advisors who are not working on commission?                     MR. BIBAS: The understanding of Congress,       as discussed in our brief, was that salesmen are selling          anywhere they go. Back in the 's, they would be           selling off­hours. They'd be going to people's homes         and when they met people at church or clubs or wherever.           And that mechanics and partsmen, just as Justice Breyer         alluded to, were going out and had to work in the field,            at least in some context, and it was hard to track           overtime with their regular hours and off­site work.                    In response to a few other Court problems ­­                     JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: The salesman ­­                 JUSTICE ALITO: All of that was true ­­                    CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: I'm sorry. Justice        Alito is talking.   Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review             JUSTICE ALITO: All of that was true in         . That really isn't ­­ maybe it was. It's not            consistent with my ­­ what I would have imagined car           salesmen are doing or partsmen are doing.                               MR. BIBAS: May I answer?       CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Yes, and then       Justice Sotomayor has a question.                              MR. BIBAS: Yes.    If the universe of employees who meet the        exemption now has shrunk so it's narrower than the         original purposes, that is a reason for Congress to          repeal or restrict it. It is certainly not a reason for             the courts to expand it.                 JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: It was more of Justice        Alito's. When did automobile salesmen travel? When did          mechanics and partsmen for automobile leave the ­­ the         job ­­             MR. BIBAS: Congress, the Senate discussed       that expressly in the 's. I don't know when that            changed.             CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, counsel.                   Mr. Yang.              ORAL ARGUMENT OF ANTHONY A. YANG                FOR UNITED STATES, AS AMICUS CURIAE,                     SUPPORTING THE RESPONDENTS   Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review             MR. YANG: Mr. Chief Justice, and may it         please the Court:               I'd like to address three points, as well as         answer some additional questions. The first is, I'd         like to discuss the text of the statute as it was           enacted in . Congress enacted the statute in          and separated salesmen from partsmen and mechanics in        subsection or clause B.                Second, I'd like to discuss Petitioner's      argument that selling services is being primarily       engaged in servicing automobiles. As a textual matter,          we think that's just plain wrong.                  And, finally, I'd like to discuss really       what's at issue here. Petitioner has made a lot of            policy arguments about high­paid commission, people who       are salesmen, they're incentivized to sell. Petitioner        has essentially conceded in his argument that what we're         really talking is people who aren't paid on commission.         Those people are who Congress was concerned about,        people who fall outside of (i), and there's no reason          to expand (b)()(A) to cover them.                  So first, when Congress enacted the statute       in , and this ­­ you can see this on page A of the              government's appendix, you can see the difference of        what Congress did.   Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review             Prior to , there was a single exemption,         salesmen, partsmen and mechanics. And that applied to         several different types of vehicles. It included        applying to trailers and aircraft, as well as        automobiles.              In , Congress decided to eliminate the      exemption for partsmen and mechanics for trailers and        aircraft. The legislative history is quite clear on         this. When they did that, they created subsection B.          So they preserved the exemption for salesmen.                   But look at subsection B, this is on top of          page A, it says "Any salesman primarily engaged in         selling trailers, boats, or aircraft."                 That shows you that Congress was ­­ linked        salesmen to selling and, by implication, partsmen and        mechanics to servicing. Because when you look at (A),          the only time servicing comes in is when partsmen and          mechanics were there.               So I think as a textual matter, that shows           you what Congress was trying to do.                   Second, "selling" is not servicing.     Petitioner says that you're engaged in the selling        process or the ­­ and the servicing process because         you're selling servicing. If you are selling plastic         surgery, you're not ever thought to be engaging in         Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review plastic surgery. You're selling it.                  Maybe you might be seen to be part of the          process of servicing, but it's not natural to say that          you're engaged in servicing.                And I think it's telling that Petitioner has         to rely on Section (j), as my brother suggested,         (j) is a definitional section. The only way          Petitioner gets to the suggestion that doing things that         are essential to the production is production is because         the statute says, "For the purposes of this chapter, it          shall be deemed production."                And as my brother explained, "Farmers      Reservoir," and this is a quote, "explains that         production in the normal sense is quite different rather         than production in the special sense defined here."                    What we're talking about is the normal sense        of being engaged in servicing. That means you are          actually taking part in the repairing or the providing         maintenance for automobiles. Service advisors do not do         that.             Moreover, Petitioner's reading, if we really      do expand servicing to extend to people who are engaged          in the process, why wouldn't you cover salesmen who only          sell warranties, salesmen who only sell the antirust        coating under the car, salesmen at the counter that sell          Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review the key fobs and other things that are branded with the           dealership's logo? They're all engaged in selling        automobiles in the sense that you got to advertise, you          got to sell. This promotes the sale of automobiles.          That's wrong.              The mechanic that simply fixes the HVAC       system or fixes the guts, were they engaged in servicing          automobiles? Everybody at a dealership, under        Petitioner's view, is essentially engaged in selling or        servicing because they're engaged in the process of        selling or servicing automobiles. That's just wrong.                    Line drawing is necessary. Now, we depart a         little bit from Respondents in that we think the statute          is ambiguous, right? I mean, if the statute had just            said, salesmen engaged in selling or servicing, you'd be         forced to say, well, Congress must have meant "salesmen"         instead of ­­ intended a distributive meaning when they          included "salesmen and partsmen and mechanics." But the         line drawing that has to be done here ­­ if you           acknowledge that line drawing has to be done, salesmen,         the service advisors are way down the line.                    They rely on partsmen, but partsmen, as we        explained, are working hand­in­hand with mechanics. So        they're logically understood to be servicing, but a        salesman is not logically understood to be servicing.        Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review             So what's key about the canon of Reddendo        and the recognition of distributive phrasing is not that         you have to read the statute that way, but what it does            suggest is that there is no such basic rule of grammar           that requires the use of "or" to link every antecedent          noun with all antecedent gerunds. The question is         whether it's ambiguous.               So if we get into ambiguity, the agency has         construed this statute in notice­and­comment rulemaking.      That is entitled to deference.                             Now, before ­­  JUSTICE KAGAN: Mr. Yang, why was it ­­ I          mean, for the most part this explanation seems like not          the world's best explanation to me but perfectly        adequate. But Mr. Clement does have a point that           somehow the agency took out this more specific        explanation and I ­­ I guess if I were just looking at               the explanation itself I would say, you know, not an           A­plus job, but fine. But it is a little bit perplexing             as to why they took this out. Why was that?                       MR. YANG: Well, we don't have this in the          record, but I have been informed that there was an           inadvertent mistake in drafting. All of these are in          Subsection C of the statute.                  JUSTICE KAGAN: Wow. I really did not          Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review expect expect you to say that.                  MR. YANG: It was inadvertent, but it        doesn't make a difference, and I'll explain why.                     The prior (c) ­­ they ­­ they redid (c),         , and , and they just didn't reprint because it            hadn't changed at all. So ­­ but it ­­ the reason it             doesn't matter is what (c) said before ­­                   JUSTICE KAGAN: Not an A­plus explanation.                   (Laughter.)                         MR. YANG: It's a passing grade.        But what I would say is in (c), before ­­          this is reproduced on page a of the appendix to our           brief. It says sales advisors aren't included unless         they're primarily engaged in the work of a salesman,          partsman, or mechanic as defined.                 So what really does the work is the        definition of "salesman." And the definition of        salesman is what they reenacted as notice­and­comment       rulemaking with some modifications to take care of        changes since the amendments.                 The definition of salesmen covered ­­ and       they say "as used in Section (b)," so they're         construing the term "salesman" as used in this statutory         provision. It means "someone who is engaged in making          sales or obtaining orders for the sales of vehicles."         Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review             Service advisors don't fall under that      category. So they're not salesmen within the meaning of          the statute as it has been construed. They're salesmen,          sure, in kind of a general sense. But they're not            salesmen as construed in this provision, because they're        not engaged in selling automobiles.                 Not the perfect, but a passing grade for ­­         for the agency.               JUSTICE BREYER: Now, that's ­­ maybe this        problem in my mind will go away, but I ­­ I'm with you              up to a large point. I think it is ambiguous. I think                 there is no longer any reason at all for having the           mechanics exempt, but they're there. And so then, with          the service people, an agency could reason, well, let's         not make a bad situation worse, which is what you say.            Or they could reason the opposite: These are virtually          identical, why not treat them the same.                                           Now, problem. years?     MR. YANG: Right.    JUSTICE BREYER: And so the real question is         don't they have to address this?                              MR. YANG: Well, they do have ­­       JUSTICE BREYER: Well, do they? I mean, you           know, I guess I could ­­ I'll read that again and ­­ and               try to see do they really address it, and ­­ but that's            Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review where I'm having a problem.                  And it isn't just ­­ he's quite right, your         colleague, where he says this isn't just a simple          reversal of a regulation. It isn't that. They never            really had the regulation acquiescing. And they've had         to find things in handbooks and so forth. But the           practical fact is everybody thought the law was what the          Court said. And so now suddenly, in the ­­ in ­­                                   MR. YANG: Well, not ­­     JUSTICE BREYER: This is the problem,       because after all, different administrations have      different policies. And there's some protection in the         ABA from preventing too big a shift too quickly, the           protection being, address it. Address it. Think about          it.             MR. YANG: I think what's necessary is for          the agency to recognize that it had a prior position,           which it did here. It also has to explain what it's            doing, which it did here. It explained how it          understood the statute to be most appropriately read.                    Now, to the extent you also have to ­­        you're suggesting that the agency has to explain why its          prior interpretation was wrong ­­                JUSTICE BREYER: No. No.                  MR. YANG: I don't think ­­       Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review             JUSTICE BREYER: Because I don't think        either would be wrong. But they have to explain why are            we, despite years of ­­                             MR. YANG: Right.    JUSTICE BREYER: ­­ going long with the        other, why now do we think that was a mistake?                       MR. YANG: I think you can ­­ you can ­­ if             that were a requirement, we don't think it's necessary.          But if it were, you could easily see the answer by           reading the ­­ the opinion letter in conjunction ­­         if I can follow ­­ finish. Thank you.                      The opinion letter was based on the        theory that service advisors are selling, they're doing        selling. And so as a result, they said, well, when            you're working on service under warranty. You're no         longer selling, so you don't count for the exemption.         Only when you're selling nonwarranty services ­­                                          CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, counsel.       MR. YANG: Thank you.     CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Mr. Clement, four       minutes.           REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF PAUL D. CLEMENT                     ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONER                 MR. CLEMENT: Mr. Chief Justice, and may it         please the Court:   Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review             Just a few points in rebuttal, starting        right where Justice Breyer and my friend from the SG's          office left off. Which is to say, I think, you know, if              you look at what they did in the preamble, they did what            agencies do every day, which is first they say, we have           some comments that say this; we have some comments that          say that. They simply relate what the comments were.          Then there's the money paragraph that explains what they         actually did, what justifies their decision, and there's        nothing in there about reliance interests at all. So if           there's anything to your Fox position, then I think this           does not get a passing grade; it gets a flunking grade.                         And what I'd like to just offer as a         potential comparison: As you may know, the agency has          also revisited the issue you addressed in Long Island         Care, and they did that through notice­and­comment       rulemaking. And it's worth a quick look to show what            night looks like and what day looks like, because that          is all about the reliance interests of the fact that          they treated this one way for many, many years, and          there are sections of that preamble explaining when they         change it how this is going to impose costs and why           those costs are justified. It's ­­ it's ­­ it is a            stark example of how the agency should behave when         they're changing the position.    Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review             And here's the last thing to add about this:         It also ­­ if they give that kind of analysis, it gives            some reason for people, especially in the Fourth and the          Fifth Circuit, who already have a binding circuit         precedent that say that service advisors are not ­­ are          exempt, it gives them a reason to maybe think about           changing.             But when they do nothing to address the        reliance interests and they just say, gosh, we really         think we were right all along, why is anybody,         especially in the Fourth and Fifth Circuit, supposed to         change the way they're doing things, and that's the only          way that they say that they can even possibly get within           the protection against massive, retroactive damage      liability.             So I think, in a sense, the State Farm           principles or the Fox principles would work hand­in­hand        with this concern about retroactivity.                 JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: So is it okay if we just          send it back?               MR. CLEMENT: Sure. As long as it means          that there is no retroactive liability. I mean, I ­­                        JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: They've already conceded      there's not. So they're ­­ they're not going to claim           any. Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review             MR. CLEMENT: No, no. What ­­ no, no. What            they won't concede ­­ we're not talking about        retroactive liability. I'm talking about liability that        predates when they clearly explained why they changed        their position, which would be sometime in late as          opposed to in . So ­­ so in that sense, it does             make a big difference.                 Just a couple of other textual points,        because I do think you actually don't even need to get            to any kind of deference issue.                  My friend on the other side ­­ I think we           have a better reading of (j), if you want to look at             it, because Congress specifically ­­ it's a definition         session. Everything in there is what they deem things          to mean. And then they deem "production" to mean one           thing, and then they mean "engaged in production" to         mean something broader.               But in all events, my friends concede that        "engaged in" means taking part. Well, the service         advisors take part in servicing, just like the partsmen         take part in servicing.                Mr. Chief Justice, if you have any questions        about what the service advisors do, a good place to look            is the complaint. JA, they tell you what they are ­­           they evaluate the service and/or repair needs of the         Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review vehicle, and they write up an estimate for the repair          and services. That, to me, seems to be taking part in            the servicing process. I'm not so sure that's not more           integral to the servicing process than what the partsmen         do.             The last point I'd like to make here is that          there is a practical anomaly that will be created with           siding with the other side, is that the best­paid people          in the servicing departments will now be the only ones          that are not exempt.                On average, the service advisors make about       $, and ­­ a year. The average partsman makes           $, a year. The average mechanic makes $, a           year.             Now, I'd hate to be the person that has to          go explain to the partsmen and the mechanics why it is           that their better­paid service advisor colleagues are       the only ones that aren't exempt from the FLSA overtime          provisions and are going to get a windfall in litigation           like this. That would be ­­                  JUSTICE GINSBURG: Because they would be       exempt to the extent they paid on commission which, as I           understand it, most of them ­­                 MR. CLEMENT: Yes, Justice Ginsburg. But to         repeat my answer to you, there are people right now who           Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review are service advisors who are not paid principally on a          commission, and they like it that way. And the          consequences of ruling in the other side's favor is that          automobile dealerships are going to have to go to these          people because FLSA provisions are not waivable. And         they're going to have to say, look, I know you like it             this way, but we've got the Supreme Court decision. We           have to rejigger things. You get into this different          (i) exemption position, so you can no longer be paid          the way you've been paid for the ­plus years the way           the Labor Department has been acquiescing in this, save         the Ninth Circuit below, and find that service advisors         are salesmen principally involved in servicing      automobiles.             Thank you.              CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, counsel.                   The case is submitted.                (Whereupon, at : p.m., the case in the        above­entitled matter was submitted.)    Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review Official ­ Subject to Final Review A A­plus : : a.m : : ABA : above­entitled : : absolute : academies : accept : : account : : accurate : acknowledge : acquiesced : acquiescence :, acquiescently : acquiescing : : Act : :, : : : : action : actions : : : activity :, actual : : add :, : : adding : additional : : address :, : :, :, : addressed : : : : : addresses : : : adequate : administrations : administrative :, : : admit : adopted : advertise : advice : advising : : :, advisor :, : : :, : advisors :, : :, : : :, : : : :,, : : : : :, : :, : : :, : :, : : : : : : : : : :, : :, afternoon : agencies : : : : agency : : : :, : :, : : :, :, : : :, :, : : :, agree : : : agreed : agricultural : : applied : : aircraft :, : AL : Alito : : : :, : : Alito's : alluded : ambiguity : ambiguous : : : : : : amendments : amici : amicus : : : : : amount : analogy : analysis : : and/or : anomaly : answer : : : : : : answers : antecedent : : ANTHONY : : : antirust : anybody : anymore : anyways : apart : apparently : APPEARAN... : appears : appendix : : : applicable : : : applies : apply : : : : applying : : : appropriately : April : : archetypical : area : : areas : : arguably : argument : :,,, : : : : : : :, : :, : arguments : arrangement : arrangements : art : articulating : aside : asked : : : : asking : assembly : Assistant : Association : : auto : : : : automatic : : automobile : :, : : : :, : : :, automobiles :,, : : : : : : :, : : : : :,,, : : automotive : : available : average : : : :, : aware : awful : awfully : B B : :, back : : : : : : :, : : : :, : :,, : : : : bad : balance : barking :, based : : : : : basic : basis : :, : : : : : bay : Bayh : becoming : behalf :, :,, : : : Alderson Reporting Company Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review behave : belief : belt :,, :, benefit : best : : best­paid : better : : : : : : : : better­paid : calipers : call : : : called : : candid :, canon :,, : capacious : car : : :, : :, : : : : breadth : breakdown : Breyer : : :,, :, : : : : : :, : :,, :, : : : brief : : : : : : :,, : : : : bring : broad : broaden : broadens : beyond : Bibas : : :,, : : : :, : :, : :, :,, : : : :, : :,, : brother :, :,, :,,, :,,, : :, :,, : :, : bunch :, bushings : business : busy : broader : brought : build : : : : : carving : case : : : : : : : : : : : :, cases : : :,,, : :, : : : : : chapter : car's : care : : Chevron : :, : :, : : :,, : : : careful :, cars : : : :,, :, :, : big : : : binding : bit :, : : : boats : bookkeeping : : boy : : brake : brakes : branded : books :, C :, bottom : C cat :, categories : circuit : c : : :, categorize : : c) : c) :,, C : C : : C : : :,, : C : : :, category : : : cause : certain : certainly : : cetera : chance : chances : change : :, : : Alderson Reporting Company : : :, : : changed : : : : : : : : : : changes : :, : : class : : : classic : clause : cleaner : clear : : : : : : : : : clearer : clearly : : changing : Clement : :, :,, :, :, :, :,, : :, :, : :, : : :, :, : : : :,,, :, : : : : : : : :,, : : : clerk : client : clients : : : clipboard : close : : : closely : : closely­related : clubs : clutch :, : coating : codify : : Chief :, :, : : :, : :, : :, :,,, : :, : :, : : : choice : choosing : church : :,, :,,, : :,, : Circuits : circumstance :, : cite :, cited : civil : claim : : Official ­ Subject to Final Review colleague : colleagues : concede : : :, : : counsel : : : : : D : :, :, : D.C :,, count : : damage : defer :, : deference : : :, :, : :, : : : : : defined : : : : defines : definition : :,, :,, : definitional : definitions : : depart : department : : : :, : : : :,, : :,, : : : Department's : : departments : : describe : : combination : : come : : : : :, : : : : comes : : : comfortable : coming : : commentators :,, commenters : comments : :, :, : commission :, : :,, :, : :, : : : : commissioned :, : : conceded : : : conceding : counter : concern : couple : : concerned : conduct : : : confirm : conform : Congress : : : : :, : : :, : :, :,,, :,, : : conjunction : course : : : : : : : Court :, : : :, : : : : : : : : : : : Court's : :, connected : courts : : consequences :, : : : : : considered : consistent : : :, : construed : :, construing : cover : : covered : : :, :, : : : covering : covers : created : : criminal : criteria : crystal : curiae : : : customer :, damages :, : :, :,, :, : : darn : date : : : : : day : : : :, days : deal : dealer : dealers :, : : dealership : : : :, : : dealership's : dealerships : : : dealerships' : dealing : deals : dealt : decades : decide : decided : commissions : context : : : : comparison : compensated : : : compensation : complaint : : : : completely : : component continue : contrasting : convince : coordinating : core : correct : : : cost :,, costs :, :, despite : diagnose : diagnosis : decision :, diagnostic : : : :, : : : : dictionary : : : : :, difference : : : : : :,, deem :, customer­facing deemed : : : : customers : Ddeeming : defense :, different : :, : :, : Alderson Reporting Company :, : entry­level : : : : driving : : :, drum : : : differently : : due : dynamic : differs : direct : directly : dirty : disagree : discharge : discuss :, : E E : :, earlier : : : : : discussed : early : easily : effect :, effected : discussion : effective : disks : dispenses : dispensing either : : : : dispersion : dispute : disruptive : : distributive : : Division : :, doctor :, doctrine : document : doing : :, : :, : : : :, : : : : dollars : door : dozens : drafting : drawing : :,, :,, drawn :, : : eliminate : employed : : employee : : :, : : : employees : : :, : :, :, : employer : enacted :, : Encino : : end­run : enforce :, : : enforcement : : : : engaged :, : : : :, : : :, : :, :,, :,,,, Official ­ Subject to Final Review :, :,, : :, :, : :, : :, : :,,, :, : :, engaging : engendered : engine : entirely : entitled : : entries : equal : equivalent : era : especially : : ESQ :,, :,,, essence : essential : essentially : : : : estimate : : : : et : : evaluate : : events : everybody : : : : exact : exactly : : : : example : : : exception : : exempt : : : : : : : : : :, : : : :, : exemption : : : : : : : : : :,, : : exempts : : exist : existed : existence : : expand : : : : expect :, expert :, experts : explain : : : :, : : explained : : : : : explaining : explains : : : explanation : : : :, :, : explicit : explicitly : expressly : : extant : extend : extent : : extra : extreme : F facing : : fact : : : : : : :, : : : : : fails : fair : : fall : : falls : familiar : fan :,, : far : : : : farm :, : : : : : : Farmers : : favor : favored : : Federal :, feel : field : : Fifth : : :, : : figure : : figures : filed : : final : finally : find : : fine : finger : : Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review functions :, funny : G finish : firms : first : : : :, : : :, : : :, general : : : : : : :, : :, : G : gain : generally : gerund : gerunds : getting : Ginsburg : : : : : : : : :, : : : : :, harder : hate : head : hear : HECTOR : hello : high­paid : highly : good­faith : history : goods : gosh : : homes : government : : : good : : Honor :, hold : : : : government's : : : : : : hood :, :, : :,, : : : : : : : :, : :, grammar : hospital : hook : hooks : grab : grade : : :, grain : : :, :, : grant : : hour : : : : : : give : : : : fit : five : fix : : :, fixes :, FLSA : : : : : flunking : fobs : focus : follow : force : forced : former : forth : : forward : : Fourth : : :, : :, Fox : : : : : : frankly : Friday : friend : : friends : : : : : front : : full : function : given : : : : : : gives :, giving : : found : four : : go : : : grease : greet : grind : grinders : guess : : : : : guts : guys : H hand­in­hand : : handbook : : : : :, :,,, : : : :, : : : goes :, : : : : : : handbooks : handing : going : :, : : hands : : : :,,, :, : happen : :,, : happened : :, : :,, happens : hard : Alderson Reporting Company hours :,, : :, : : :, : HVAC : I identical : ill­defined : imagine : imagined : implement : implements : : : : : implication : implications : import : important : : : : impose : impression : inadvertent : : incentivized : include :, : : included : : : : includes : : including : incomplete : incorporating : incorrect : : indicators : individuals : :, industries : industry : informal : information : informed : : : insurance : intake :, integral : : : : integrated : intended : : interest : interests : : :, : intermediate : interpret : : interpretation : : : Official ­ Subject to Final Review : : : : interpreted : interpreting : interpretive : :, invent : involved : : irregular : : Island : : : issue : : : : :,,, : : : : : : issuing : J JA : job :, : : : jobs : judge : judges : judgment :, Justice : : : :,, :,, :, : :,, : :, :,,, :, : :, : : :, : : : : :,,, : :, : :, :, : :, : : :, :,,, :,, :,, :, : : :, :, : :,, :,,, : :,, :,,, :,,, :,,, :, : :,,, : : :, : :,, :, : :,,, : :, : :, : justified : justifies : K Kagan : : :, : : : : : :, : keep : KENNEDY :, : :,, : : key : : kind : : : : : : : : : kinds :, : : : knew : know :, : : : :, : : : : : : : : :, : : : : : : :, : knowing : L labor : : :,,, : : : : : : : lane : language : : :, :, large : late : lathes : Laughter : : law : : : : : lawyer : lawyers : leasing : leave : : leaves : left : : legislative : let's : : letter :, : : :, liability : :, : : liable :, : likes : limitations : line : :, : :, : :, :, lines : link : linked : listed : listen : listening : literal : : litigated : : litigating : litigation : little :,, : : : LLC : logically : : logo : long : : : : : : longer : : : : look : : :, : : : :, : : :, : looked : looking : looks :, lose : lot : : : : lots : Alderson Reporting Company M Machinists' : main : maintained : maintaining : maintenance : : making : : : : : manages : manual : : : : manuals : massive : materials : matter : : : : : : mean : : : :, :, : : : : : :, : : : : : : : : : :,,, meaning : : : means : : : :, : : : : : : : meant : : : measure : measuring : Official ­ Subject to Final Review : : non­mechanic occupation : Originally : occupational : : non­warranty Occupations : : ought : : mechanic : mix : : modern : modifications : :, : : : :, :, : modified : :, : moment : :, : Monday : : : money : mechanic's : month : mechanic­faci... morning : : nonwarranty : : Motorcars : : : : : nonmechanics nonresponsive :, off­hours : off­site : offer : : office : : oh : : : mechanics : : :,, : multiple : : : N :, : :, : N :, : : : : :,, name : : :, named : narrow : : : nails :, mechanics' : :, narrower : normal :, normally : noted : noteworthy okay : : : : old : notice : older :, notice­and­co... omitted : : :,, : : : : : : : : Once : one­and­a­half :, ones :, : meet : members : National : men : mentioned : : :, :,,, notice­and­co... open : : paid :, : : : : :,, : : : : :, : noting : notwithstandi... operates : operating : :, opens : : : natural : nature : Navarro : : : :, necessary : noun :, : merely : merits : met : methods : middle : mind : : : :, : : : : : need :, : noun­verb : operations : : : :, : : needs : : noun/verb : opinion : nouns : : : : : :, opposed : : NPR : number : NELA :, minds : minimize : never : : numbers : minimum : nurse :, : : :, minimum­wage : new : : :, : : : : O O : : minute : minutes : missed :, Ninth : mistake : : night : : O.R :, objects : obtain : obtaining : noise :, : : opposite : : : : : : : : ordering : orders : ordinary : original : : :,, oral : :,, outliers : outside : : overhaul : overnight : overtime : : : : : :, : : P P : p.m : Pa : page : : : :, : : : : pages : : paperwork : : : paragraph :, : : : : parrot : parroting : part : : :,,, :, : : :, : :, :, : :,, : partially : particular : Alderson Reporting Company personally : pointed : Official ­ Subject to Final Review pluck : point : : : :, preceded : : : : precedent : : :, : : : :,,, precisely : preclude : : : predates : : : predominates points : : : : : : : policies : policy : : : prefer : preliminary : preserved : presumably : : :, :,, : : : :, :, : :, processes : produced :, producing : production : : :, :,,, : :, professor's : Portal­to­Portal pretty : : promotes : promulgated preventing : : proposal : position :,, previously : prospectively previous : : particularly : : parts : perfectly : : period : : perplexing : : :, : :,, person :, : : : : partsman : : :, persons : : : : persuasive : Petitioner :, partsmen :, : :,, : : :,,, :, : : :, : : :, : :, : :,,, :,, : :, party : passing : : : PAUL : : :, : :,, : : : :, : :, : Petitioner's : : :, : : : : Petitioners : Petitioners' : Philadelphia : : : : phone :, pay : penalties :, people :, phrase : :, : pick : phrasing : :, :, physically : : : :, : : :, place :, : : : : : :, plain : : :, : :,,, plastic : : : : :, : : : people's : percent : : percentage : perfect : plates : plead : pleaded : please : : : : : pled :, :, : : : : : : : : : : : :,, : :, :, : : : :, : : positions : possible : possibly : post :, post­ : : post­Chevron : potential : : practical : : : : : : protected : protection : : : : primarily : : :,, : : :, : : : prove : proved : principal : proven : principally : provide : : : : :, : providing : principles : proving : : prior : : : :, provision : : : : : : :, : : : : provisions :, private : probably : : : problem : : : : : :,, : publicizing :, : : pulled : : practices : problems : punished : : :, : purposes : pre­ : : : preamble : process : : :, :,, : : : put : : Alderson Reporting Company : : : puts : putting : : Q qualify : : : question : : : : : :, : : : : :, : : : : : : questions : : : : : quibble : : quick : quickly : quite : : : : : : quotation : quote :, : R R : raised : range : : rationale : read : : :,, :,, :, : :, : : : reading : : : : : Official ­ Subject to Final Review : : real : : : real­world : : realistic : really : : redone : repeal : reenacted : repeat : rephrase : refacers : reference : replace : reply :, : referring : regs :,, reprint : reproduced : : : :, : regular :, :, : :,,, : : :, : : : : : : regulation : : :, :,,, :, : :, rejected : rejigger : relate : reason : : : require : requirement : requires : : : requisitioning : : : rescinded : : :, related :, reserve : :,, : : :, relays : reliably : : : :,, reliance : :, : : : : Reservoir : respect : : : : revisited : right :, : : : : : :, :, : : : : : : : : right­hand : rights : risk : : ROBERTS : : :, :, : :,, :,,, :, : :, : : : role :, : :, : : : rulemaking : :, : : : : : : : : : rules : :, :, : ruling : : rush : S S : : salaried :,, : : salaries : salary :, : sale : reasoning : reasons : : : : rebuttal : : : recall : recognition : : :, : : : : :, :, : relied : rely : : relying : : remainder : Respondents : room : rotate : rule :,, :, :, : : : response : responses : responsible : responsive : recognize : remand : : : recognized : :, remanufacture restrict : restructured : : recognizing : remind : recommendati... removed : result : rethink :, : record : : rendering : retroactive : : reorder : reorienting : :, : recording : repair : records : red : : Reddendo : repairing : :, : : :, : redid : repairs : : retroactively : retroactivity : reversal : revisit : Alderson Reporting Company sales :, : : : : : : :,, scalpels : scares : school : sentence : second : : separate : : : : : :, : : : : salesman : : :, : : : : :,,, secretaries : Secondly : : salesmen :, secretary : section :, : :, : : : : :, : : :, : : :, : :, : :, :, : seek : :,, : salespeople : :, sections : see : : seeking : : :, : : : : seen : : salesperson : segue : sell : : : : :,, : : : salt : Saturday : : Saturdays : save : saying : : Official ­ Subject to Final Review : separated :, : separately : September : :, : : :, : :,,, : :, :, : :,,, : :, :,, : sorry : : : : sort : Sotomayor : : :, : : :,, : :, :,, :,, :, : : :, :, session : set : setting : seven : SG's : share :, special : : specially : specific : : : : :, serious : service :, : :, :, :, sound : :, :,, shift : : speaks : : : :, shop : :, : show : : : : :, shows : :,, :,,, :,, : :,, : :, :, : : : : : : :, :, : :,, :, : : stability : stage : Standard : stark : started : starting : State : side's : siding : significance shrunk : side : : : : : significant : squealing : : : :, : : : specifically : signs : similar : simple : simpler : simply : selling : : : : : : :,, :,,, : : servicers : : :, :, : services :, :,,, :, : :,,, : :, :, sells : Senate : Senator : send : : : : : : : : : : : says :, : : :,, : :, :, : :,,, : : : : : :, sense : : : : : :, : : : :, : : :, : : : : : sitting : situation : servicing : :, :, : : : : sleep : :, :, :, : slightly : :,,, small : : :, :, : :, :, :, : Smiley : sold : Solicitor : somebody : : : : single : scales : : States :,, : : statistical : statute : : :,, : : : :, :,,,, :,, : :, : :, : : :, : :, : Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review Supreme :, terms : : :, : : : :, : :, : :, : :, : : statute's : statutes : statutory : : : : sure : : : : : : : surgery : : surprise : suspect : : : STEPHANOS : : : strong : : structuring suspicion : sweeps : symptoms : sync : system : studiously : system­wide stuff : subject : : : submissions : T T :, take :, : : submit : submitted : : subsection : : :, : succeed : sudden : : suddenly : suggest : suggested : : suggesting : suggestion : suggests : : : sum : supply : supporting : : : : Suppose : supposed : : : :, : : :, : : : : : : : : : :, takes : talk : talking : : : :,, : : : :, team : : : tell :,, : : : telling : : tension : term :,, : : : : :, :,, :,,, : : :, : :, thinking : : treated :, : : treatment : trim : trouble : truck : trucks : : thought : : : : : :, : : : : : true :, : : : try : : three : : : : : :, : : : : : : trying : : : : three­plus : threshold : throw : thumb : time : : two­year : turn : two : : : :, : :, : :, : : : : : : : : times : : : type : types : U U.S : U.S.C :, : :, unadministra... understand : timing : today : told :, top : total : touching : track : tractor : : traditional : understanding trailers :, : : : : understandably : : trained : : training :,, transmission : : : : : understood : :, : unequivocally :,, unfair : travel : treat : : unique :, : : : : text : textual : : : : Thank : : : :,, :, theory : : they'd : : thing : : : : : : : : : things :, : : : : : : : think : : : :,, :, : :, : : :, : :, : :, :,,, :, : :,,, :,,, : :, :,, : :,, :,,, :, : : : : :, : :, : :,, :, : : : : : : : Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review : warranties uniquely : unit : United :,, warranty : :, : Washington : : : units : universe : :, wasn't : : unnatural : way : : use : : : :,, :, : : : uses : utensils : V v : : vague : value : valve : vehicle : vehicles :, :,, : : verb :, : verbs :, versus :, view : : :, : virtually : vital : W wage :, :, : : waivable : : Walton : : want : : : : : :, : : : : : : : : :, :, : : : : : : : :, : : : : : : : :, : :,, We'll : we're : : : : : : :,, :,, : : : we've : Wednesday : week : :, : went : : weren't : : : wide : willing : win : windfall : women : word :, : :, words : : : work :,, : : : :, : year : : : : : : :, :,,, years : :, : : : workday : workers : working : : : : : : :, : : : : : : : : : Z works : world's : worry : : : : worse : worth : : : : wouldn't : : : : : : : Wow : write : : writing : written : wrong :, : : : :, : : X x :, :, : Y Yang : : :, : :, : : :, :,, :,, Yeah : : : :, : : : : : : : : : (b) : : ­ : : : :, : : : :,, :, : : :, : : : : :, :, : :, : : :, :,,, : : : : : : : : (j) : :, : :, : (i) : : : : (b)()(A) : , : : : :, : A : : : : : : : : : ­plus : : : : A : : : : : ­hour : : : : : : : : : : : , : : ­hour : , : th : : : :­a.m.­to­... : : s : : , : Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review a : (i) : : : : : (i) : : : : : Alderson Reporting Company 