Official ­ Subject to Final Review         IN THE SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES       ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ x                                  GREGORY WELCH,                      :             Petitioner                : No. ­         v.                          UNITED STATES,                                  Respondent.            : : : ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ x                                                         Washington, D.C.                         Wednesday, March ,                  The above­entitled matter came on for oral       argument before the Supreme Court of the United States         at : a.m.   APPEARANCES: AMIR H. ALI, ESQ., Washington, D.C.; on behalf of            Petitioner. MICHAEL R. DREEBEN, ESQ., Deputy Solicitor General,             Department of Justice, Washington, D.C.; for      Respondent in support of vacatur and remand.       HELGI C. WALKER, ESQ., Washington, D.C.; for          Court­appointed amicus curiae in support of the          judgment below.  Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review                                    C O N T E N T S ORAL ARGUMENT OF                                     AMIR H. ALI, ESQ.     PAGE     On behalf of the Petitioner                           ORAL ARGUMENT OF   MICHAEL R. DREEBEN, ESQ.          For the Respondent in support     of vacatur and remand                                 ORAL ARGUMENT OF   HELGI C. WALKER, ESQ.          For the Court­appointed amicus curiae     in support of the judgment below                        REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF   AMIR H. ALI, ESQ.       On behalf of the Petitioner                            Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review                                       P R O C E E D I N G S                                            (: a.m.)              CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: We'll hear argument       first this morning in Case ­, Welch v.        United States.              Mr. Ali.                ORAL ARGUMENT OF AMIR H. ALI                     ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONER                 MR. ALI: Mr. Chief Justice, and may it         please the Court:               Johnson is retroactive because it is a rule         of substantive criminal law, not a procedural rule that          regulates only the manner of determining a defendant's         culpability or sentence. This Court applies a        straightforward test for distinguishing between those      rules that are procedural and those that are        substantive.             Assuming perfect trial or sentencing     procedures, does the new rule change the authorized        outcomes of the criminal process? If no, meaning that a           court could have reached the same outcome had it applied          perfect procedures, then we're dealing with a procedural         rule.             JUSTICE GINSBURG: Well ­­                MR. ALI: If ­­    Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review             JUSTICE GINSBURG: What do you do with        the ­­ the argument that the ­­ the concern that          motivated Johnson is all procedural? Fair notice to the          defendant that checks against arbitrary enforcement,      those are procedural concerns?                MR. ALI: Your Honor, we think under this         Court's decision in Bousley, it's clear that you don't         look to the source of the rule and that that's not           governing. And what's relevant here, as it was in          relevant ­­ in Bousley is that there was no valid active           Congress which authorized the punishment for a class of          persons. Here the class of persons who, absent the          residual clause, would have two or fewer qualifying        crimes under ACCA. In Bousley, the class of persons          were those who merely possessed firearms.                  But to answer your question more directly,       Justice Ginsburg, as we explain on page , of our           reply brief, we think it's far from clear, even if that           were the test, that vagueness sounds only in procedural         due process. In fact, it's qualitatively different, we         think, from procedural due process in the sense that it          does control or regulate which criminal prescriptions       Congress can or cannot pass in a way that we don't think             of when it comes to procedural due process.                    So Johnson didn't say, Government, if you       Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review provide notice to people or greater notice, you can         still come after them under the residual clause. What          Johnson said was the residual clause is facially        unconstitutional. No person may be sentenced to to          life under the residual clause.                 So what we know now is that people, like         Petitioner, are spending somewhere between an additional       five years to the rest of their life in prison based on            where there was no valid active Congress which        authorized that punishment. And that, we believe, is         very clearly a substantive rule under Bousley.                    JUSTICE ALITO: Well, before you get ­­ you         continue too deeply into the substance of your argument,         could I just ask a possibly irritating question about           the facts of this particular case? The first question          that you raise in the cert petition is whether the          district court was in error when it denied relief on          Petitioner's motion.               And, I mean, I want to ­­ if you look at             page A of the Joint Appendix, the first sentence of ­­          I'm sorry, the paragraph on that page, can you tell me             if you were a district court judge, would you have seen            in that argument the argument that the residual clause         of the Armed Career Criminal Act is unconstitutionally        vague? Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review             MR. ALI: Your Honor, we believe that with         liberal pro se pleading standards, that what's said on          and what's said on page where Petitioner invokes          his Fifth Amendment right to due process, combining that         with the language here, that he does not mean ­­ meet           Armed Career Criminal requirements because it's, quote,       "ambiguous, vague, and without any violence," we think        that would satisfy it. But more importantly, we think          that that ­­              JUSTICE ALITO: Well, just ­­ and, I mean,          this wasn't exactly the question I asked. Particularly          when I was on the court of appeals, and we reversed the             district court judge, they would always complain that,        you know, you're asking us to ­­ to ­­ you don't           understand our situation.               My ­­ my question is, if you were a district           judge, would you have seen in this sentence,        "Petitioner's robbery under Florida State statute      Section , et cetera, is ambiguous, vague, and was         without any violence and/or physical force," if you read         that, as a district court judge, would you have seen in            that the argument that the Court adopted in Johnson?                     MR. ALI: Your Honor, I think the answer is           yes. Again ­­               JUSTICE ALITO: You would have ­­      Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review             MR. ALI: ­­ when you read it with the          sentence before ­­ and ­­ and but more fundamentally, I          think the answer is that it doesn't matter because         there's no question that Petitioner is entitled to the         benefit of Johnson in this case.                  JUSTICE ALITO: How can it not matter?        You're arguing that the district judge made a mistake.          So your answer is you would have seen it there, and you            would be a very prescient district judge. That's the           answer.             MR. ALI: Well, Your Honor, my more complete         answer is that the questions presented that were drafted         in this case and granted about the Court were drafted by           a pro se litigant.                And I think that taking the two questions         together, what those questions ask are: Did the court          of appeals err in reversing ­­ or in denying a          certificate of appealability? So the first question is         referring to, did it err on the basis of the elements           clause question. And that raises merely the question of          whether reasonable jurists could disagree as to whether        Petitioner's conviction qualified under the elements      clause.             And the second prong goes to Johnson's       retroactivity, which, again, raises the question of       Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review whether reasonable jurists could disagree as to whether        Johnson is retroactive.               So it may be the case that the first         question presented as drafted by the pro se litigant         when it was ­­ and granted by this Court suggests to you            the question is that whether the district court erred.         But I think the better reading of the question is           whether the district ­­ sorry, whether the court of         appeals was erroneous in reversing ­­ or in denying this          certificate of appealability.               JUSTICE GINSBURG: You mention the elements       clause. That wasn't ­­ that wasn't passed on below, was           it? The ­­ I think the court of appeals said it wasn't              deciding it, that ­­               MR. ALI: Your Honor, with respect to the         elements clause, on direct appeal, the Petitioner       challenged whether he qualified under either of the two         clauses, the residual clause or the elements clause.        And the Eleventh Circuit on direct appeal said it's         arguable that the elements clause would not have ­­ have          applied. It's ­­ it was not ­­                   holding.             JUSTICE GINSBURG: They didn't make that a        MR. ALI: It did not make that a holding.           That's correct, Your Honor. What it did was fall back           Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review on the residual clause, as many courts at this time did,           because the residual clause, as this Court acknowledged        in Johnson, provided a relatively easy standardless        analysis that would allow ­­ that ­­ that many people          could be subsumed with it, and that's really the problem          here, is we're dealing with an instance in which there          was no active Congress which authorized this under        Johnson. And what we had was essentially courts         deciding whether people did or did not fall under         this ­­ this clause that this Court has described as          nearly impossible to apply as a judicial morass in a           black hole which frustrated any attempt to apply. And          we think it follows from that, that this is clearly a           substantive rule getting back into the merits of ­­ of          retroactivity.             And if ­­ if you will, Your Honors, I'd like          to just talk briefly about how illogical it would be to           deny retroactivity in this case.                 So consider a decision of this Court, like         Skilling, where the Court narrowly interpreted the       honest services fraud statute to its core conduct,        bribery and kickbacks.               Now, that case under under ­­ under Bousley        would be retroactive, because it is an interpretation        and ­­ and everybody who falls out of that core scope           Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review would get the benefit of ­­ of Skilling retroactively,         and that's what the court of ­­ courts of appeals have           concluded.             Now if the Court denies retroactivity here,       what it would be saying was ­­ is if the three justices            in Skilling had their way and instead the Court had          concluded that there is no possible interpretation of        this statute, it's incapable of interpretation, all of        those same people ­­ if the Court went the further step,           all of those same people would be denied relief, and          that ­­ we think that's entirely arbitrary. And it ­­          and it shows in the context of ACCA itself.                     So this Court in Begay said that DUI does         not clearly fall within ACCA's residual clause. And         then in chambers the Court said that failure to report          to a penal institution does not clearly fall within          ACCA's residual clause. And as the Court made those          decisions, those are retroactively applicable, and the       Court's amicus agrees with those ­­ should be        retroactively applicable.              And what the Court would be saying if it         denied retroactivity here is that if the Court goes the          further step and says, in fact, we have no idea what           Congress did or did not want to follow, so nothing          clearly follows or almost nothing clearly falls within        Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review this clause, that retroactivity ­­ nobody would get the         benefit of retroactivity. We think that's an untenable         result.             So Your Honor, if I ­­ if there are no           further questions, I think I'll reserve the remaining         time I have for rebuttal.                  CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, counsel.                   Mr. Dreeben.             ORAL ARGUMENT OF MICHAEL R. DREEBEN                         FOR THE RESPONDENT                           IN SUPPORT OF VACATUR AND REMAND      MR. DREEBEN:     Thank you, Mr. Chief Justice,     and may it please the Court:                  The United States agrees that Johnson      constitutes a substantive decision that's retroactively       applicable on collateral review. The effect of Johnson         is the controlling inquiry here.                 What Johnson did was eliminate a substantive        basis for imposing an enhanced sentence under the ACCA.         And the effect of that is to create a class of people             that the law cannot punish under ACCA. This is the           Court's language in Schriro v. Summerlin on the        definition of a substantive rule.                  The reason ­­              JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: I'm a little troubled by         Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review the use of the word "class of people." Amicae is right            that that's almost a circular argument. You're a class            of people because I say you can't be covered by this.            It doesn't make much sense in terms ­­ can't be covered           by this law.               What's ­­ isn't there a simpler way of         arguing this, which is that if ­­ and your co­counsel is           ­­ Petitioner's counsel is suggesting it.                  If you can be retried under the existing law         with a corrective process, that's procedural. If you          can't be retried and sentenced that way, that's        substance ­­ substantive.               MR. DREEBEN: Well, I ­­ I think that's a            fine way, Justice Sotomayor, of ­­                 JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Pretty simple rule.      What's wrong with it?                MR. DREEBEN: The only caveat that I have          about it at all is, as this Court knows from Montgomery           v. Louisiana, the government's view is that a law that            invalidates a mandatory minimum punishment within an        existing range is a substantive rule because it expands          the range of outcomes. May not eliminate the outcome          that the defendant actually received, but it does        require an expanded range of outcomes, and we regard         that as a substantive holding.      Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review             But with that caveat, I entirely agree that         the basic distinction between substance and procedure is        the substantive holding changes the question that the        court or the sentencer is answering. It changes it          from, in this case, did the defendant have a conviction           that qualified under the residual clause, to does he         have a conviction that qualifies under the elements         clause or the enumerated offense clause only. It ­­ it           strikes from the statute a basis ­­ a discrete basis for             finding ACCA applicable.               And that is, I think, as you correctly point          out, Justice Sotomayor, very different from a procedural         rule that would say you have to give the defendant           days' notice before the defendant litigates this, or the         defendant has to be able to introduce certain kinds of          evidence in support of the defendant's claim. But the          Court is still answering the very same question: Was          there a violent felony under a preexisting definition          unaltered by the Court's new ruling.                  And once the Court divides the world between        procedural consequences and substantive changes in the       law that alter the question, the very question that the          Court is answering, I think that resolves the         substance­versus­procedure inquiry.              JUSTICE KENNEDY: What happens ­­     Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review JUSTICE GINSBURG: If ­­    JUSTICE KENNEDY: ­­ in a State court ­­ a                                   State criminal system if the statute says that the judge          may take into account whether or not past acts and past           crimes were crimes of violence, and a judge makes that           finding? It's almost in ­­ in the same terms as the            statute that was struck down in Johnson. What ­­ what           results there?              MR. DREEBEN: Justice Kennedy, I think the         result would be the same if it were actually an ­­ an            analogous State law provision that was worded the same         and that was invalidated on vagueness grounds in other         words.             JUSTICE KENNEDY: And that's ­­ that's even        assuming that the sentence the judge gave after making         that finding was within the maximum permitted by the         statute?             MR. DREEBEN: Yes. If the substantive basis         for imposing that sentence is altered so that the judge          could no longer rely on the fact that he did rely on to             impose that sentence, then it ­­ it alters substantive         law.             And there may be defendants, and in fact        Petitioner may be one for whom ACCA is still applicable,          because there is an alternative way of imposing the same          Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review sentence.             JUSTICE GINSBURG: Can you explain it, how        ­­ how this elements clause might work. You say on the            residual clause, it's substantive. But you say these         elements, it might be ­­ it still might fall under the           elements clause. Can you spell that out?                    MR. DREEBEN: Well, Justice Ginsburg, the       time of the conviction, he was convicted of strong­arm         robbery. And there was an argument that he raises, and           continues to raise, that strong­arm robbery doesn't       require, as interpreted by Florida law at the time of          his conviction, violent force. This is what the court          held is required to satisfy the elements clause in ACCA          in the other Johnson case, the Curtis Johnson case.                     So he argues that violent force wasn't       required; that the Eleventh Circuit looked at some State         law precedents and said we're just not going to decide          this issue; it's easier to resolve under the residual         clause. So it remained an open issue under Eleventh          Circuit law. And the courts below just haven't decided          it.               I think there is a very substantial argument        that a proper reading of Florida State law would lead to            the conclusion that you do need to use enough force to           take property from another person to be convicted of         Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review Florida strong­arm robbery, and that would satisfy the        Curtis Johnson standard, in which case his conviction        would count, but on an alternative basis.                   But he has arguments to the contrary. They         have never been reviewed by the courts below. And that           is why the government's view is that this Court should          resolve the retroactivity of Johnson in this case if it          concludes that Johnson is retroactive. Rather than        being a court of first view on the elements clause, the            Court should let the Eleventh Circuit sort that out.                     JUSTICE GINSBURG: The Eleventh Circuit, as       counsel said, decided the case on the basis of the          residual clause. But there's one other part of this          that's a little foggy to me, and it doesn't arise in            Welch's case because this is ­­ his is a first            motion; is that ­­                           MR. DREEBEN: That is correct.      JUSTICE GINSBURG: And there's something      about successive ­­ second or successive motions. Does         that work a little differently, or is this ­­                     MR. DREEBEN: It works very differently,       Justice Ginsburg. To get certified for filing of a          second or successive motion, a defendant has to go           to the court of appeals and request authorization and         receive it under (h). And (h)() permits        Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review certification when a new rule of constitutional law has          been made retroactive to cases on collateral review by         this Court. So it requires a ruling from this Court            that the ruling that's relied upon is retroactive.                    And the courts of appeals have split,       methodologically and substantively, on whether this      Court has made Johnson retroactive.                 To be very brief about it, the government's        position is that this Court has done so through a          combination of holdings. It's a syllogism. All          substantive rules are retroactive; Johnson is a       substantive rule; therefore, this Court's jurisprudence      makes Johnson retroactive.               But that has occasioned substantial     disagreement in the courts of appeals. Unfortunately,        Congress precluded certiorari review in the AEDPA, so        this Court cannot directly review that conflict.                   If the Court in this case were to hold that          Johnson is retroactive, it would make Johnson       retroactive, and thereby entitle the second or       successive filers to come in. And the government         believes that that would be appropriate because if, in         fact, they are serving an ACCA sentence based on a          residual clause conviction, they're in jail for a        minimum of five years longer than Congress ever validly         Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review authorized.             And in the government's view, that's the       kind of substantive holding that Justice Harlan had in         mind in the Mackey case, which was the progenitor of the           Teague opinion. It's ­­ means that the criminal process          has come to rest at a point where it never should have             come to rest.               The residual clause was not found to be        unconstitutional until Johnson, but once the Court has        concluded ­­ contrary to the government's argument, to        be sure ­­ but that it is facially void, it means that            Congress never supplied a valid basis for those         sentences. And we think that it is consistent with the           doctrinal framework that the Court has announced for        habeas cases and for the substantive versus procedural        inquiry to hold it retroactive.                 Now the amicus in support of the judgment        has offered an alternative way of analyzing       retroactivity. Its method ­­ its approach is to look at           the source of the underlying right rather than the         effect that it has in the criminal proceeding.                    That approach is in some ways reminiscent of        the first step in retroactivity analysis under       Linkletter v. Walker, the very approach that the Court         overthrew in Teague. That inquiry said, what was the          Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review purpose of the new rule being designed? The amicus's          argument would send the courts back to look at that as           opposed to looking at the ­­ the effect of the rule.                       And Justice Harlan himself, I think, offered        us a very clear indication that he understood that it           was the effect of the rule, rather than the source of           the rule. He examined two cases in combination in the           Mackey decision and the United States in Coin & Currency           that involved a Fifth Amendment violation, punishing        somebody for compelling ­­ you know, compelled       self­incrimination. And that is a procedural rule, but          when it is the very basis for criminal liability, in          other words, punishing somebody for failing to       incriminate themselves, Justice Harlan said that's a       substantive effect, and it's entitled to retroactivity.                   When, on the other hand, it simply gives        rise to evidence that should not have been admitted in          an otherwise valid proceeding, it produces a procedural         rule that Justice Harlan believed was not entitled to         retroactivity. Same right, two different outcomes       depending on the effect in the particular case.                    And we think that that effects­based      approach is what the Court adopted in Schriro v.         Summerlin and in Teague and has applied in numerous         other cases. And it's also the basis for the          Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review government's view that while Johnson does apply to the         sentencing guidelines, in the sentencing guidelines      context, it does not create a substantive rule. It           creates a procedural rule. The sentencing guidelines         serve as information that the judge must legally        consider in imposing the sentence, but it does not alter          the statutory maximum or require a statutory minimum.                     So a mistake in applying the guidelines        functions as a piece of misinformation. It's analogous          to wrongly weighed facts or legal considerations within        a preexisting range. And in our view, that is, under           the definition that Justice Sotomayor articulated, and       other definitions, a procedural rule. It influences the          way a guideline sentence influences what the judge does,          but the judge's charge remains the same, to impose a          sentence that is sufficient, but not greater than        necessary, to achieve the purposes of punishment within        a preexisting statutory minimum and maximum.                  JUSTICE KENNEDY: Well, so suppose the ­­       the judge says in a guidelines case, because you are           guilty of a crime of violence, I find you within that             class of persons to whom I will give a ­­ an enhanced              sentence? Procedural?               MR. DREEBEN: I think it is still procedural          within the meaning of the Teague line of jurisprudence         Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review because errors that result in a judge giving too much           weight to a particular factor in making a discretionary           decision fall into the procedural basket.                  This Court has a number of death penalty         cases in which either the jury was deprived of         considering certain information or it improperly gave       weight to certain factors. It received instructions        that may have relieved itself of a sense of          responsibility or ignored mitigating factors.                 And the Court has said those are procedural.        They don't change the ultimate outcomes that the Court         has before it. They only influence the way in which the            party gets to the outcome. And there may be ­­ there            may be error there, quite serious error, but the         question for retroactivity is not whether there is        error. It's whether it's procedural error or a         substantive error that actually alters the range of        conduct that's being punished. Here, we believe it's         the latter.              JUSTICE ALITO: Do you have any view about         what we should say about whether the vagueness issue was          properly raised?              MR. DREEBEN: I believe that the appropriate         thing to do, Justice Alito, would be to leave that issue           open for the Eleventh Circuit to evaluate in the first          Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review instance. It has not been passed on by any lower court.                          I do quite agree with your reading of the        district court complaint. I do not believe that a           vagueness issue was properly raised in the district        court. It was called to the Court's attention in the           application for the certificate of appealability and in        a request to hold that application for Johnson. At the           time that the Eleventh Circuit denied those things, it         committed no error, either, because Johnson had not been         decided. And that makes this case, as I think we said             in our brief, a somewhat unusual procedural vehicle for          clarifying the law as to Johnson.                  The United States filed a ­­ a brief at the            petition stage saying just to vacate this case and         remand it so that the Eleventh Circuit can apply         Johnson. And, of course, it would be free to apply           other procedural rules, and we still think that's the         right ­­             JUSTICE ALITO: Can we do that? Can we just           decide an abstract legal question without deciding       whether the issue is before us ­­                                          MR. DREEBEN: Yes.    JUSTICE ALITO: ­­ properly before us?       MR. DREEBEN: I ­­ I think that the Court            has jurisdiction to resolve a pure question of law and           Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review to make clear that other procedural impediments, which        have not been ruled on below, remain open for the lower           court. I don't see any jurisdictional obstacle to this           Court doing it. And the Court has, in some other           contexts, resolved legal issues ­­ I'm sorry. May I          complete the answer?               CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Sure.                 MR. DREEBEN: ­­ and remanded to a lower          court with leave for that court to apply a bar if, in             fact, that was the appropriate thing to do.                    JUSTICE GINSBURG: But the government didn't       raise a procedural bar.                 MR. DREEBEN: We are most certainly, Justice        Ginsburg, not raising procedural default in this case.        I was meaning to refer generically to the category of          procedural issues along the lines that Justice Alito        mentioned that should remain open for consideration       below. But the United States is ­­ has waived          procedural default in this case.                 CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, counsel.                   Ms. Walker.              ORAL ARGUMENT OF HELGI C. WALKER                FOR THE COURT­APPOINTED AMICUS CURIAE                             IN SUPPORT OF THE JUDGMENT BELOW      MS. WALKER: Mr. Chief Justice, and may it         Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review please the Court:               In the years since Teague was decided,        this Court has never held that a new rule based on the             central procedural guarantees of the due process clause,        in either the Fifth Amendment or the Fourteenth        Amendment, nonetheless constituted a substantive rule       that could apply to overturn final criminal judgments.                    You should not do so for the first time         here.             JUSTICE GINSBURG: How can it not be        substantive when, under one rule, the sentence range        goes minimum of years up to life, and the other           reading, it's zero to ten years? I can't imagine           anything more substantive than five extra ­­ a minimum          of five extra years in prison.                  MS. WALKER: Because the government's      articulation of the test, which is an effects­based test         that they draw from a statutory construction case,         Bousley, is not the proper inquiry for asking whether a          new constitutional rule is substantive or procedural.       Since Penry, which, after all, was the case that first          extended Teague's first exception into the sentencing       context in the first place, there, the Court looked for          the existence of a, quote, "substantive categorical       constitutional guarantee." And ever since, that's what        Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review this Court has looked for. The foundation stone, as you           said, just two months in Montgomery, is the existence of          a, quote, "substantive constitutional guarantee." That       must be the lodestar for whether a new constitutional          rule is procedural or substantive.                 JUSTICE GINSBURG: And what is the       substantive constitutional guarantees? Much of the       Sixth Amendment is ­­ is all procedure, right?                    MS. WALKER: That's true. And that was         Summerlin, Justice Scalia. And that actually proves my         point about the proper analysis. In Summerlin, Justice         Scalia looked to the Sixth Amendment right to jury         trial, which was the underlying constitutional basis for        the new rule announced in Ring. And he said, well, it            can't be substantive because the Sixth Amendment jury        trial right has nothing to do with the scope of conduct           that Congress can either punish or prohibit.                   And so, too, here, I don't think there's         really any question. I don't think my friends on the            other side have seriously contested this, but Johnson is         a case that is founded on the procedural due process          right not to be put in jail under a vague law. There is               nothing in Johnson that suggests there was any concern,         other than clarity, predictability, determinacy. The       void for vagueness cases that the author of Johnson         Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review shows appear to have been carefully selected. None of          them involved constitutionally protected conduct. None       of them involved any other constitutional interest in        play.             We have hornbook law that shows ­­ Professor        Tribe's treatise that void for vagueness doctrine has        always been understood to come under the procedural due         process component of the Due Process Clause, not the         substantive due process component.                CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: What ­­ what       procedures would allow somebody to be convicted under        the residual clause? If it's a procedural protection,          there must be some procedures that would allow people to          be convicted. What are they?                  MS. WALKER: Absolutely. What Johnson       required was the use of a framework that specified the           nature of the inquiry to be conducted and the kinds of           factors to be considered.                And the fact that Congress can go back and         fix the problem with residual clause, as members of this          Court have pointed out, and as my friends on the other           side concede, only shows that Johnson did not, quote,         deprive ­­ that's the language of Montgomery, that's the         language of Penry ­­ did not deprive Congress of any          substantive power, if you will, to impose ­year        Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review sentences.             The problem in Johnson was not that       something was wrong with ­year mandatory minimums, per        se, but just that Congress hadn't articulated its ­­ its          statutory goal in sufficiently precise terms.                              JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Why don't we ­­      JUSTICE KENNEDY: Suppose you have a statute         which makes it a crime to engage in conduct annoying to            others?                         MS. WALKER: That was Coates.      JUSTICE KENNEDY: And the Court said this is         void because it is vague. That's procedural.                    MS. WALKER: That's the Coates decision,       which said ­­ struck down a State law, I think it was ­­              that said that you can't stand on the street and annoy           other people, and you definitely can't annoy a police          officer.             The Court said that is void­for­vagueness,      because nobody can tell what the particular standard is.         What the Court actually went out of its way to say,           certainly States can regulate behavior on the street.        We're not saying that States lack the power to do this.           We're just saying you have to do this in a sufficiently            clear way.              So Coates fully supports our reading of the        Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review void­for­vagueness doctrine.              CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: So the procedural       protection is that Congress can change the law?                    MS. WALKER: The procedural protection is       the right to fair notice and an avoidance of the risk of            arbitrary enforcement. Those are the two prongs of the          void­for­vagueness doctrine. And those have always been        understood to come under the procedural due process        component.             Johnson was based on the Fifth Amendment.       So there are essentially only two options here, Mr.         Chief Justice. Johnson was either founded on the         procedural component of the due process clause, or it         was founded on the substantive component. And I think           that if you read fairly, Johnson, from beginning to end,          you'll not see any substantive concern. The concern is          the underlying conduct was somehow constitutionally      protected, which ­­              JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Why did we make Bailey        retroactive? Congress could have made mere possession.        I think it subsequently did, in some form. It could           have changed the law and fixed the problem. How is that            different than here?               It could make certain class of crimes ­­       this defendant's particular crime, if it chose, it could         Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review take the elements of this crime and say, these are          violent crimes. So how are they different? We made           Bailey retroactive.                                      MS. WALKER: They're different in two ways.        Yes, you did, Justice Sotomayor.     First, Bailey was a statutory construction       case. And what Bousley explained is that when this          Court construes Federal criminal statutes in such a way          as to definitely exclude particular conduct, they're in        mere possession of a firearm ­­                  JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: But we have excluded       particular conduct. We've said the residual clause        can't define a violent crime.                  MS. WALKER: With all respect, that is not         how we read Johnson. Johnson said the statute is          indeterminant. We can't say that particular conduct is         definitively outside the scope of the statute, which is         what the Court did in Begay and Chambers and cases like           Bailey. And there, we know that the defendants are          innocent of anything that Congress meant by criminal        case acts.              JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Whether it's Bailey or       here, Congress has to redefine the crime.                   MS. WALKER: That is ­­                 JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: It has to step in and         Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review pass a new statute. So why is it substantive in one             respect but not another? Same two things have to be           done. The law has to be changed.                    MS. WALKER: Because we have to ask why the          law has to be changed. In Bailey, the law had to be             changed because this Court said the statute didn't reach         particular conduct. And so the defendants would be         innocent of anything that Congress ever meant to        criminalize.             In Johnson, though, the Court didn't say we        know that all defendants sentenced under the residual        clause have been sentenced on the basis of a crime that            Congress never meant to cover. In fact, the Court said           quite the opposite. They said we can't tell.                     JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: You said when you       started that Congress could change the statute to make         nonuse criminal, just possession.                MS. WALKER: Yes, and that showed ­­                   JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: And so Congress could       change the statute and make this conduct criminal. I          don't see the difference.                MS. WALKER: So what ­­                 JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: I don't see ­­ you still          need a congressional act ­­                 MS. WALKER: Right.    Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: ­­ to ­­     MS. WALKER: And the fact that you needed a                                  congressional act both in Bailey and here just shows our          ultimate point, which is that Johnson didn't deprive        Congress of the power to legislate in this area. It           simply said you have to do a better job.                      The Court didn't strike down the residual       clause because Congress had exceeded its powers under        Article , or regulated something that didn't affect        interstate commerce, or regulated something, some      conduct, some private, primary conduct, that is entirely        and categorically off limits. The       Court just said you    need to do a better job.                   CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:     So it's a ­­                JUSTICE GINSBURG: How     do you ­­              CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:     Please.             JUSTICE GINSBURG: How     do you deal with the     argument that counsel made saying it would be passing         strange if, when a law is narrowed, then it's          substantive. But if a law is invalidated entirely, then           we put it on the procedural side. That ­­ that, at            first, at least, that seems to be a persuasive argument.                       MS. WALKER: Well, I would submit it doesn't          ultimately work at the end of the day for two reasons,           Justice Ginsburg.  Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review             First, the case of Bousley is a statutory         construction case. There was no new constitutional rule         in Bousley. So all the late Chief Justice Rehnquist          said there, writing for the Court, is that when this          Court interprets a statute, we are outside the Teague          framework entirely. And there, of course, the Court         hadn't even reversed itself on the statutory question.        So there wasn't even a new statutory issue there.                      When the court says what a statute        definitively means, it is making a judicial        determination that the conduct at issue falls       definitively outside the scope of the relevant statute.        Here, precisely because Johnson said that the clause was         hopelessly indeterminant, we can't know with certainty       that everybody's conduct fell outside the clause. At         the end of the day, it is a function of this Court's             approach to statutory construction decisions on the one        hand, which just aren't affected by Teague. After all,          the problem that Teague set out to solve was         retroactivity in a world of changing constitutional        rules. And so statutory rules are to one side. We            should be looking here to the test for when a new            constitutional rule is substantive.                And I think it's quite revealing that my         friends on the other side have not even attempted to          Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review argue that the rule in Johnson fits within either of the           traditional standards for distinguishing substance and      procedure in the constitutional context.                 JUSTICE BREYER: If we could go back to         Justice Kennedy's question and the Chief Justice's, I        may not have the distinction correct, but I thought the           distinction, at least as we've interpreted it in Teague,         we provided ­­ produced a different answer. There is a            statute. It says that pestiness is a crime. Sounds            like a pretty good statute. But you ­­ you can't pester             people.             Okay. Now, the Court says, I'm sorry,        desirable though that may be, it's unconstitutional.       That's the end of it. Okay?                   There are people in prison for having        violated that statute. They were convicted many years         ago. Do they, under Teague, get out?                    MS. WALKER: I don't think they do ­­                     JUSTICE BREYER: Well, that amazes me.       Because I thought the point of Teague was that if the            statute under which they are convicted doesn't exist        anymore because ­­ for whatever reason ­­ because, for         example ­­ and did not exist at the time, because it was            an unconstitutional statute ­­ they are serving time        under a statute which was then and is now nonexistent           Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review and, therefore, they get out.                 But if the change that was made in the law          is a change having to do with the accuracy of the            procedure that was used to convict them of that statute,          that statute still exists. They didn't get the right          procedure when they got convicted of it, but we're not          going to let everybody out of prison for those kinds of           mistakes for a variety of reasons. It may be there are             too many of them or whatever. But then he doesn't get            out under Teague.               Now, that's what I thought basically, we        said, Bousley, I don't know, a bunch of cases here.            Now ­­ now, if I ­­ if I have this fundamentally wrong,              if what I've just said is wrong, so you can explain to            me what I ­­ what I did.                     MS. WALKER: Justice Breyer, what Justice       Harlan said, and what the Court adopted in Teague, is          that habeas should issue when private, primary conduct        has been put ­­ and this Court reiterated in         Montgomery ­­                         power ­­             JUSTICE BREYER: Yeah.    MS. WALKER: ­­ altogether beyond the       JUSTICE BREYER: That's what he says there.        But later we say substantive rules include decisions of         Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review this Court holding that a substantive Federal criminal         statute does not reach certain conduct.                                                      MS. WALKER: And that's ­­     JUSTICE BREYER: See?    MS. WALKER: ­­ the statute ­­      JUSTICE BREYER: Therefore, there is a       statute, perhaps. But this person is in prison, and          this person is in prison for doing a thing that there is             no statute makes illegal. That's how I read that.           That's Bousley.              MS. WALKER: And that's the statutory       construction decision, which is all my friends have to         rely on here, when of course what we're analyzing is a           constitutional rule. And they don't even say that         Bousley by its terms applies. They ask you to say ­­ to             adopt a radical new test, a comparable effects test.                       But we don't need to analogize by an analogy         to a constitutional rule, which is what Bousley is          about. We should use the standard for judging whether a           constitutional rule is substantive or procedural.                  JUSTICE KAGAN: Well, why would Justice       Harlan have wanted that distinction in the world of         constitutional rules, because it seems to me Justice        Harlan, as Justice Breyer suggested, would have looked        at this and said, well, yes, but these ­­ this person or            Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review these people could not ­­ it is improper for this           person to be sitting in jail under any statute that          Congress lawfully passed. I mean, it might be that they            could be sitting in jail under a different statute that           Congress didn't pass. But Congress didn't pass that         statute, and that makes this sentence for this person         improper, unlawful, under any measure.                 So why would justice Harlan have wanted to        exclude those people from the protection that he        suggested in Mackey?               MS. WALKER: What Justice Harlan was       concerned about in Mackey was situations where the        conduct at issue is immune from punishment. Nobody is          immune from punishment under the residual clause in the         sense that they were engaging in constitutionally       protected conduct, which is plainly what Justice Harlan        was talking about.               And it's not enough that this Court simply        invalidates a statute. We must ask why the statute was            invalidated. Was it invalidated for a reason that was           based on a substantive or a procedural ­­                     JUSTICE KAGAN: I understand your test. I          guess I'm just struggling to understand the reason        behind it. Because you said if ­­ if he weren't immune,            if Congress could have passed a different statute, you          Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review know, coulda­woulda­shoulda, Congress didn't pass a      different statute, and that means he's in jail        unlawfully.             MS. WALKER: Well, one is in jail lawfully         if, at the time the sentence became final, he was there           under the law as it stood at the time. We only apply             new rules on habeas when they fall within this narrow          category of substantive rules.                And the notion that when this Court declares        a statute unconstitutional, for any reason, that makes        the underlying judgment or conviction or sentence       unlawful and as if it never were, the void ab initio           concept, going all the way back to the th century, has           been rejected by this Court in its retroactivity cases.         Linkletter explained that even when this Court       invalidates a statute, the prior existence of that         statute is an operative fact that cannot justly be         ignored.             So we've moved past, well past any notion        where a law that has been declared subsequently         unconstitutional simply disappears, and we must all       pretend it never existed.                JUSTICE BREYER: Yeah, but that's still ­­       you have a point that, because it's not quite like the            pest statute. The pest statute, when we say there is no            Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review such statute, it's unlawful. And there they are,          people now in jail because they violated a statute, and           that statute, there was no such statute, or it isn't in           the future, you see? And so we say, you get out.                        On the other hand, if the only reason that         they ­­ anybody got out is because they were convicted          under a procedure, you see, that was unconstitutional,         they are within the class of a valid statute putting in            jail.             The valid statute puts them in jail. But         we're not certain he's the right one because the         procedure was unfair. Is he really that kind of person?           And that's the procedural thing. It doesn't go         backwards.             Now, if those are the two categories, this        has some of both, you're quite correct. He was          convicted for having violated a legitimate law, though         he's not quite like our pest.                  On the other hand, after time has passed, a         large number of these people are sitting there in prison          and there is no statute of the Federal government that          says a person like you have been told you are, deserves            or can be put in jail. And so in that respect, it's             like the pest. And so is it like? Which is it like?              That seems to be the problem in this case.         Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review                         MS. WALKER: Well, it actually ­­      JUSTICE BREYER: I don't know if you want to           address that or not. It's up to you.                                 MS. WALKER: I would love to.        JUSTICE BREYER: All right.                 (Laughter.)             MS. WALKER: Johnson has to be substantive        if it's going to apply on collateral review. So if           you're not quite sure whether it's procedural or        substantive, then the default has to go to        nonretroactivity, because whether we want to call       substantive due process rule an exception to Teague, or         whether we simply want to say they're not subject to          Teague at all, the point is there's a particular type of            rule that qualifies as substantive. And if it doesn't          squarely qualify as substantive, and I think the fact          that my friends have had to resort to an effects­based          test that draws from a statutory construction case that          analogizes to the actual first Teague exception, shows        that Johnson doesn't squarely fall into the bucket of a          substantive rule.              And my second response, Justice Breyer,      would be that Teague assumes, it's inherent in Teague,         that there will be constitutional violations that go        unremedied. Otherwise, all new constitutional rules as        Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review announced by this Court would apply retroactively. And         that is certainly not what Justice Harlan ever intended.                     CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: How ­­ my       understanding is that it's properly categorized as       procedural if there's some people who could be convicted         under it legitimately; in other words, Miranda ­­ you         didn't get Miranda warnings, but you know, you were a          criminal law professor, you knew what your rights were.                     But who is it who could be convicted        legitimately under the residual clause? We're sure,        yes, okay, it's ­­ it's vague, whatever, but you are          definitely covered, so you shouldn't get the protection        of what you would regard as a procedural flaw.                      MS. WALKER: We certainly agree that Johnson        invalidated the residual clause, and therefore, to       answer your question, Mr. Chief Justice, nobody can be         sentenced under the residual clause going forward, and        the residual ­­ anybody that was sentenced under the         residual clause would get the benefit of that new rule          on direct appeal.               But the question that Teague asks is whether        that remedy should be available on collateral review.        And the answer to that depends upon ­­ and this was           reaffirmed just two months ago in Montgomery ­­ the         existence of a substantive procedural guarantee. Once         Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review we cut the analysis loose, subs procedure under Teague's         first exception, cut it loose from the underlying        constitutional basis for the rule, we're going to be         entirely at sea.               CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: But I ­­ but my          understanding is that the characterization of that as        procedural, it turns on whether or not there is a          significant group of people who could be convicted under         that provision where vagueness would be off the table.                     Now, however, it may appear to other people        engaging in this type of conduct. Maybe it's vague for           them, but for this group of people, that's not vague.          So we're not worried about not applying it        retroactively.             MS. WALKER: But we can't know that about         everybody that was sentenced under residual clause. And         yet, holding Johnson retroactive would give relief to        everybody categorically that was sentenced under      residual clause. Any ­­                CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Right. Including ­­       including some people you think it shouldn't be applied         to.             MS. WALKER: Absolutely.                CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: So who shouldn't the        residual clause apply to?    Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review             MS. WALKER: Well, for instance, let's take        the Petitioner in this case, Mr. Welch. His sentence          was correct under the residual clause at the time it          became final, which is what Justice Harlan said we         should be looking at. But even today, Mr. Chief          Justice, his sentence is plainly correct under the        elements clause, Florida law has made clear since .                     CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: What ­­ what I'm        talking about, the residual clause.                             MS. WALKER: Yes.    CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: I guess what I'm         trying to ask you is who are the people who you can say,             without a doubt, their conduct otherwise involves        conduct that presents a serious potential risk of         physical injury?              MS. WALKER: The people who committed the        crimes that were at issue in this Court's decisions in          James and Sykes, the people who had engaged in vehicular          flight, and the second crime is now escaping.                    CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: The problem in       Johnson, I think we took a look back and said, yeah,             well, we did say that, but I have to think Johnson            suggests that those decisions were not clear.                   MS. WALKER: Certainly Johnson overruled      those decisions with respect to the vagueness holding,        Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review but this Court itself said that people who engaged in          those two particular crimes were entirely correctly       sentenced under the residual clause. The Court actually         didn't say that that itself was wrong.                   And what's interesting about    void­for­vagueness doctrine, and Johnson in particular,      is that it took years for the vagueness of the           residual clause, the hopeless indeterminacy of it, to        materialize. That's all the more reason not to pretend          as if the residual clause never existed at all, as my           friends would have us do under the nineteenth century         Blackstonian.             CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: So you would go back         and say that we think that vehicular homicide is conduct          that ­­ today, with the benefit of the analysis in          Johnson ­­ I mean, assuming we were wrong in those           cases, which I think Johnson suggests or said, that          nonetheless it's clear that those people, the vehicular        homicide people, we shouldn't be concerned about       applying this ­­ not applying this retroactively because        they, and other ­­ and other category clearly are         covered by it.               In other words, put aside our cases where I         think ­­ I understand your argument, well, we decided          that, but I ­­ I think Johnson suggests we decided it             Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review wrongly.             MS. WALKER: Right. There's ­­ there's        other ­­ other kinds of crimes ­­                                                      example?             CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Yes.     MS. WALKER: I'm sorry, Mr. Chief Justice.        There's other ­­  CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: What's another      MS. WALKER: Other kinds of crimes that have         been found by the lower courts to count are attempted          rape, child molestation, assault with intent to kill. I          think all of those crimes would fall within the         heartland of the residual clause without a whole lot of           debate.             But the point, again, is that we need to go          back to the existence of a substantive constitutional         guarantee. The reason why we are here in a sentencing            case is because Penry extended Teague into the        sentencing context by reasoning that Justice Harlan had        spoken of, quote, substantive categorical guarantees      accorded by the Constitution. Nobody in this case has          even attempted to fit Johnson within that core of         Justice Harlan's theory.               The cases that Justice Harlan cited in       Footnote of Mackey, that famous opinion, those cases,          Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review those conducts immunizing decisions of this Court, like        Griswold, Stanley, Street, and Loving, the other side        does not even mention those cases in their briefs. I           think that shows just how far Johnson retroactivity        would be from anything that Justice Harlan ever        intended.             If the Court has no further questions.                   CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, Counsel.                   MS. WALKER: Thank you.                 CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Mr. Ali, you have        six minutes remaining.               REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF AMIR H. ALI                     ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONER                 MR. ALI: Thank you, Mr. Chief Justice.                      I just have a couple of quick points to         make.             The first, when questioned by you, Mr. Chief        Justice, the Court's amicae suggested that the clear        examples under Johnson would be James and Sykes. And          I'd just like to point out how this Court describes          James and Sykes in Johnson.                 This Court said that James ­­ the case of         James illustrates how speculative the enterprise under       the residual clause is.                CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Yeah. Well, she ­­        Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review she also went on to suggest some holdings in the lower           courts that seemed a little more on point than James and            Sykes. What ­­ what about those?                   MR. ALI: Well, Your Honor, what this Court         said was that it was skeptical that those clear examples          cited by the government in ­­ in Johnson and cited by           the dissent in Johnson were so easy once you looked at           those more closely. And so the Court gave the example,           for instance, of rioting in a prison, and said that when            you actually break that down, it's not so simple.         And ­­ and the Court seemed skeptical that there would          be very many offenses. Now, it did suggest ­­ it did            accept that there would be some that ­­                   CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Yeah. Rioting in        prison may be right. But the ­­ the example of rape,            doesn't that clearly fall under that language?                   MR. ALI: Well, the court accepted that        there may be some clear cases. It didn't define what           those ­­ what ­­ the universe of those cases it had in            mind. But more importantly, what the court did was say           that the residual clause is so standardless, that        despite that fact, we are going for in validate it          altogether, because it is not capable of being applied.         And that's what's relevant for the purposes of        retroactivity. Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review             JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: What would be your rule        on ­­ on this issue I posited to Mr. ­­ to the Assistant              Solicitor General. What would be your take on its          effect on the guidelines?                MR. ALI: Your Honor, with respect to the         advisory guidelines, we ­­               JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: And I know that's not         the issue we've posed, but I ­­ I just want to have a               general idea.              MR. ALI: That's fine. We think that the ­­          the guidelines are different in that, again, they don't         change the statutory range. Now, that would be one          basis this Court could distinguish. But we do think          it's a complicated question.                 So, for instance, in Pugh this Court talked        about the anchoring effect of the guidelines, and this         Court's pending decision in Molina­Martinez may also       comment on the anchoring effect of the guidelines. And          so there is an argument to be made there, but I do agree              with the government that it can be distinguished on the          basis that when somebody brings a challenge based on the           residual clause of the guidelines, what they're saying        is, my sentence might have been different. When they          bring a challenge ­­                JUSTICE BREYER: That not ­­ that's not it,         Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review the residual clause. The risk here is the ­­ which I'd            like to know your response to ­­                              MR. ALI: Sure.    JUSTICE BREYER: ­­ is what we're saying is         a person whose sentence ­­ it's not conviction of the          crime. He's been convicted. But a person whose           sentence is higher than it otherwise would have been due          to an unconstitutional provision of law must get the         lower sentence even if he was sentenced years ago.          That's what we would be saying.                  Now, there are many, many reasons why       certain guidelines or perhaps statutory portions of the        Sentencing Act might be held unconstitutional.                  But I think I agree with you. The reason            isn't the point in Teague. The fact is that it's           whether the thing is struck out, because if it's struck          out, there is no basis for holding the person in the           prison, you see? And that's what you're arguing.                     I ­­             MR. ALI: Your Honor, I agree with that, and           JUSTICE BREYER: And what I can't foresee in          this ­­ and maybe you have ­­ is what effect it would            have on sentencing across the board. The government's         reassuring, because they say, well, we thought about it.         Doesn't seem to have that much of an effect. It's           Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review important. But if you could be reassuring on that, if           you've thought about it.                MR. ALI: Your Honor, I ­­ I will be            reassuring on that.                           JUSTICE BREYER: I'm sure you would.       MR. ALI: What we're saying is this court,         to be clear, has not distinguished in the context of          retroactivity or habeas between conviction or sentence.       And that distinction wouldn't make sense, because we're        talking about whether someone's confinement is unlawful.       Now, what we're saying and what the ­­ I think the            government ­­ the reason it wouldn't have such a great           effect, is what we're saying is that when it is just one            of those substantive criterion in a particular provision         which is setting forth the sentence, which is struck         down. It's not simply a procedure or some sort of rule             governing how you reach that sentence. It's that rare          circumstance in which an actual substantive criterion       which qualifies someone or makes someone eligible for        the punishment authorized, which leads to the       circumstance which Your Honor described, which is that        this person, the Petitioner, is now spending time in         prison that was not authorized by any valid act of          Congress.             And that's what makes this case much more        Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review clear than the guidelines, because someone in the        guideline's circumstance cannot assert that aspect of       it, that my sentence was not authorized by any valid act           of Congess.               Now, again, there may be arguments that      could be made to suggest that that's valid, that it's          relevantly similar, but it's certainly not something       that's necessarily entailed.               I'd just like to comment briefly on the idea         that substantive rule should be limited to those        which ­­ in which Congress completely is deprived of its          authority. We think that Chief Justice Rehnquist        answered that question in Bousley. He didn't talk about          Congress's intent. In fact, what he said was that when           the statute's scope is narrowed, like rules which place         conduct beyond the power of Congress, the law doesn't         punish those persons. You create a set of persons who            the law doesn't punish. And for that reason, in this           circumstance, we believe it's controlling, as well.                   Johnson invalidated the residual clause.     There was no law authorizing the punishment of years          that Petitioner received at trial. And ­­ and we          believe that Chief Justice Rehnquist's decision in       Bousley controls here, and it follows that the court of          appeal's decision should be reversed. Thank you.        Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, Counsel.       Ms. Walker, this Court appointed you to                               brief and argue this case in an amicus curiae in support           of the judgment below. You have ably discharged that          responsibility, for which we are grateful.                              The case is submitted.    (Whereupon, at : a.m., the case in the        above­entitled  matter was submitted.)   Alderson Reporting Company A a.m : : : ab : able : ably : above­entitled : : absent : Absolutely : : abstract : ACCA : : :, : : : : ACCA's : : accept : accepted : accorded : account : accuracy : achieve : acknowledged : act : : : : : : active : : : acts : : actual : : additional : address : admitted : adopt : adopted : : : advisory : AEDPA : affect : ago : : : agree : : Official ­ Subject to Final Review Official ­ Subject to Final Reviewanalysis : : : : : analyzing : : apply :, : :, : : : : : : anchoring : applying : Assistant : assumes : assuming : : : attempt : attempted : :, attention : author : authority : authorization : authorized : : : : : :, : authorizing : available : avoidance : B back : : : : : : : : : backwards : Bailey : :,,, : : bar :, based : : : : : : basic : basically : basis : : :, : :, : :, : : : :, : basket : Begay : : : :, appointed : approach : :, : : appropriate : : : arbitrary : : : area : arguable : argue : : argues : arguing : : : argument : :,,, : : : :, : : : : :, : : : :, : : : arguments : : Armed : : Article : articulated : : articulation : aside : asked : asking : : asks : aspect : assault : assert : : : :, agrees : : Ali : :, :,,, : :, :, :, : :, : : :, :, :, Alito : : : : : : :, : allow : : : alter : : altered : alternative : : : alters : : : and/or : announced : : : annoy :, annoying : answer : : :,, : : : :, answered : answering : :, anybody : : anymore : appeal :, altogether : : : amazes : ambiguous : appeal's : appealability : : : : Amendment : : :, :,, : amicae : : amicus : : : : : : amicus's : AMIR : : : : : analogize : analogizes : analogous : : appeals : : :, : : :, appear : : APPEARAN... : Appendix : applicable : : : : : application : : applied : : : : : applies : analogy : : Alderson Reporting Company Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review beginning : called : behalf : : capable : certificate : cited : : : : : : : : : : Career : : certification claim : clarifying : clarity : class :,, : :, : : : combining : come : : :, : : comes : comment : : commerce : clause : :, committed : compelled : : : : comparable :, :, :,,, : :,, :, : :,, :, compelling :,, complain : :, : : : : complaint : :, : complete : : : : :, : :, :, : complicated :, : :, :, : : : : : : : : :, : completely concede : concept : concern : : : : component : clauses : clear :, : : : :, : : :, : : : :, concerned : : concerns : concluded : clearly : : : : :,,, concludes : : : conclusion : conduct : : : : : : :, : :, :, : : : : :, behavior : believe : : :, : :, believed : believes : benefit : : : : : better : : : beyond : : black : Blackstonian : board : Bousley :, : : : : : :, : :,, :, break : Breyer :, :,, :,, : :, : : :, : bribery : brief : : :, : : : carefully : case : : : certified : certiorari : cetera : challenge : : : : : : :, : :,, : : : : :, : : :, change : : : : :, :, : :, : : : : : :, : changed : : :,, challenged : chambers : :,, : cases : : changes :, :, : : : : : :, : : : :, categorical : : categorically : : categories : categorized : category : : : caveat : : central : : changing : characterizati... : charge : checks : Chief :, : : :, : : :, : : : : :, :,, :,,, : :,, :,,, : : :, : : briefly : : century : briefs : bring : brings : bucket : bunch : cert : certain : :, : : : : child : chose : Circuit : closely : co­counsel : :, : Coates :, : : :, : Coin : collateral : C C : :, : : call : certainly : : :, : : certainty : circular : circumstance :, : : : : : combination Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review : : : courts :, : : constitutionally count : : : : : : :, : : conducted : conducts : confinement : construction : : :, : : construes : contested : conflict : Congess : Congress : : : : : :, context : : : : : : : :, : :, : : : :, :, : : :,, : : : :, contexts : continue : continues : contrary : : Congress's : congressional : : consequences : consider : : consideration : considerations : considered : control : controlling : : controls : convict : convicted : : :, :, : :, :, : : conviction : :, :, : : : : : considering : consistent : core :, constituted : constitutes : correct : : : : :, crime : : : :, : : : : : : : :, : couple : : : course : cover : : : covered :, court :, : : :,, create : :, : :,, : : :, :,, creates : : :,, : :,,, :,,, : : : :, :, : : :, :, : :,,,, :,, : :, : :,, : :,, :, :, : : : :, : :, :,, :, :, :, : :, : : :, : : :, :, Curtis : :, : :,,, :, : : : Court's : : : : : :, : : :, : : : : Currency : : : cut :, : : D: Constitution : constitutional : :, :,,, : :, : : :,,, :, : corrective : correctly : : coulda­would... : counsel : : : : : : : : : : : : : : Court­appoin... : : : D :D.C :,,, day : : days' :deal :dealing : : death :debate :decide :decided : : : : :, deciding : : : decision : : : : : : : : :, decisions : : : :,, : : defendant : : :, :, : defendant's : : : definitely : : : definition : : : definitions : definitively : :, denied : :, : denies : deny : denying : : Department : depending crimes : : declared : : : : : : :,, default :, declares : deeply : criminal :, criminalize : defendants criterion : : : :, culpability : define : curiae : : : Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review : depends : deprive : : : deprived : : Deputy : described : : : distinguished : : distinguishing : : district :, :,, : : :, : : describes : divides : deserves : designed : desirable : despite : determinacy doctrinal : doctrine : :, : doing : : doubt : drafted :, : determination : : : : : : evaluate : everybody : : :, elements :, everybody's :,,, : :,, : : : : : evidence : : Eleventh : exactly : examined : :, : example : : : : :, :, examples : eligible : eliminate : : enforcement : : enterprise : existing :, entirely : factor : factors :, : facts : : failing : failure : fair : : fairly : fall : : :, : : : : : : falls : : : famous : far : : Federal : : : fell : felony : fewer : : exceeded : exception : :, : exclude : : excluded : exist :, existed : : existence : Fifth : : : : : : : : exists : expanded : expands : explain : : : filed : filers : filing : final : : : find : finding : explained : :, : extended : : extra :, F facially : : fact : : :, : : : : : : : : : : fine : : firearm : firearms : first : :, : : : : : : :, :, : : : : : : fit : fits : five : : :, : determining : difference : different : : : : :, : :, : :, differently :, direct :, : directly : : disagree : : disagreement : disappears : discharged : discrete : discretionary : dissent : distinction : :, : : distinguish : engage : engaged : draw : draws : Dreeben : : :,, :, : : : :, : : :, entailed : :, engaging : enhanced : : : due :,, : : : :,, : : : : DUI : E : :, : : : entitle : entitled : :, enumerated : err :, erred : erroneous : error : : :,,, : E : :, easier : easy : : effect :, : :, :, : :, : errors : : : effects : effects­based : : : escaping : ESQ :,, essentially : :,,, either : : : et : Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review guarantee : : fix : fixed : flaw : flight : Florida : :, : : foggy : follow : follows : generically : : : : guarantees : getting : Ginsburg : :, :, : :, :,, :, : guideline : guideline's : : :, : guidelines : : : guess : : hole : homicide : : honest : Honor : : : : : : : : : : :, : : give : : : Footnote : force : : gives : giving : go : : :, :,,, :,,, :, : hopelessly : : Honors : hopeless : hornbook : : indeterminant : : indication : influence : influences : : information : : inherent : initio : injury : innocent : : inquiry : : :, : : instance : : : : : institution : instructions : intended : : intent : : interest : interesting : interpretation : :, interpreted : : : interprets : interstate : introduce : invalidated : : :, : : invalidates : : : invokes : involved : :, involves : I idea : : : ignored : : illegal : illogical : illustrates : imagine : immune : :, immunizing : impediments : important : importantly : : impose : : : imposing : :, : impossible : improper :, improperly : incapable : include : including : : incriminate : foresee : form : forth : forward : found : : foundation : founded : :, Fourteenth : framework : : : fraud : free : friends : : : : : : frustrated : fully : function : functions : fundamentally : : further :, : : future : G G : general : :, : : :, : : goal : goes : : : going : : : : : : : good : governing : : government : : : : : : : government's guilty : H H : :, : : habeas : : : : hand : : :, happens : Harlan : :,, : :, :,, : : :, : Harlan's : hear : heartland : held : : : : : : :, : : : HELGI : : : granted : : higher : grateful : great : greater : : holding :, hold : : : GREGORY : Griswold : grounds : group :, : : : : : : : holdings : indeterminacy Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review lower : : love : : : : :, Loving : :,, : : : :, : : : : :,, lawfully : : : : : Mackey : M : lead : leads : leave : : legal : : :, : making : : : mandatory : : manner : March : : : legally : legislate : legitimate : materialize : matter : : legitimately :, let's : liability : liberal : life :, : limited : limits : line : lines : Linkletter : : litigant : : litigates : little : lodestar : longer : : look : : : : : looked : : : maximum : :, mean : : : : : meaning : : : means :, : : meant : :, measure : meet : mention : : mentioned : mere : : merely : : :, : members : irritating : issue :, :, : : :, : : : :, issues :, J jail : : :, :, :,,, James : :,,, : job :, Johnson : :, : : : : :, :,, : :, :,, : :,,, : : : :,, :,, :, : :,, :, : : : : :, : : :,, :,,, : :, : :, : Johnson's : Joint : judge : : :, :, :,,, :,, : judge's : judging : judgment : : : : : : judgments : judicial : : jurisdiction : jurisdictional : jurisprudence : : :,,,, : :, :,,, : :, : :, : :, : Justice's : justices : justly : K jurists : : KAGAN : jury : : : Kennedy : : knew : :,, : :, Kennedy's : kickbacks : kill : justice : : :, :, : :, : :, :,, :, : kind : : : :,, kinds : : : : :, :, :,, : :, : :, know : : : : :, : : : : :, : : :,,, : : : :, : : : : : :,, : :, : :,, :,, :,,, :, : :,, :,,, :,,, :, : :,, : :, : :, : :, : :,, :, : large : late : Laughter : law : : L lack : language : knows : : :, : : :, merits : : : looking : : : loose :, lot : :,, : :, :,,, : :, Louisiana : mind : : method : methodologic... MICHAEL : : : : Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review :, : : outside : :,, :,, : position : : :, :,, : possessed : possession : : : overruled : persons :, possible : possibly : overthrew : potential : overturn : power : : : : : powers : precedents : : :, persuasive pest :, pester : :, : P : P paragraph : pestiness : part : petition : particular : precise : precisely : Petitioner :, precluded : : : nonretroactivi... page : : :, : : :, :, minimum : new : : : : : : :, : :,, : : : : minimums : minutes : Miranda :, misinformation nineteenth : : mistake : : nonexistent mistakes : mitigating : molestation : : : nonuse : Molina­Marti... notice : :, : Montgomery : : : : : months : : morass : morning : motion : :, motions : motivated : moved : N : : notion :, number : : numerous : O O : : obstacle : occasioned : offense : offenses : offered : : officer : okay :, N :, : narrow : narrowed : once : : : : : : open : narrowly : nature : nearly : necessarily : opinion : necessary : need : : :, operative : : opposed : opposite : options : oral : :,, : : : : needed : never : : : : : :, : : : : : :,, : : :, : Particularly : party : pass : : :, : passing : penal : penalty : pending : Penry : : : people :, : : :, : :, : : :, : : :, : :, :, : :, : :, :, : : : : : : : : : : predictability : preexisting : :, prescient : Petitioner's : prescriptions : : : : physical : presented : passed : : piece : place : :, : : : plainly : pretty : : presents : pretend : : : primary : : prior : prison : : : : :, : :, : : private : : pro : : : problem : : : : : : : procedural : :, :, : play : pleading : please : : : : point : : : : : : : : : : : pointed : points : police : portions : : : : perfect :, permits : permitted : posed : person : : posited : outcome : : : outcomes : Alderson Reporting Company provision : quick : quite : : reasoning : reply : Official ­ Subject to Final Review : : : : :,, proves : : :, provide : : :, provided : :,,, :,, :, : :,,, :, : : :, : :,, : : : : : : :,, : Pugh : punish : : punished : punishing : : questions : :, : : : : : :, : : : : : :, quote : : R R : : : punishment : : : : :, : radical : : raise : : : pure : procedures : purpose : : :, purposes : : : : : : reasonable : : : : remanded : remedy : reminiscent : reasons : : : reassuring : :, rebuttal : : : receive : received : : : redefine : refer : referring : regard : : regulate : : regulated : : regulates : Rehnquist : : Rehnquist's : reiterated : rejected : relatively : relevant :, : : report : request : : require : : : required : : : requirements : requires : reserve : residual : :,,, : :, :, : :, : : : :, : : : : :,,, : :, : :, :,, : : : : : : resolve : : : resolved : resolves : relevantly : relied : relief : : resort : respect : : : : : : relieved : rely :, : : remain :, Respondent : : : : remained : remaining : response : : raised : : raises :, : raising : range :, : : : : : rape : : rare : reach : : : reached : read : : : : : procedure : : : : : :, : : proceeding : : process : :,, : : : : : :,, : : : produced : produces : professor : : put : : : : : puts : putting : Q qualified : : : : qualifies : : : progenitor : qualify : prohibit : prong : prongs : proper : : : qualifying : qualitatively : reading : : : : : question : :, : : :,, :, :,, reaffirmed :,,, : :, really : : : : : :, : : reason : : : questioned properly : :, : property : protected : : : protection : :, : : : : :, remains : : : remand : : : responsibility : : Alderson Reporting Company rest : :, result : : : results : retried :, retroactive : : : : :,,,, :, : : : : retroactively :,, : : : : retroactivity : :, :, :, : :, :, : : : : : : revealing : reversed : : : reversing : : review : :,, : : reviewed : right : : : : : :, :, : : : : : : : : rights : Ring : rioting :, rise : risk : : : robbery : :, : ROBERTS : : :, : : :, : :,, :,, : :, :,, : : Official ­ Subject to Final Review serious : Sotomayor Scalia :, Schriro : : : seriously : scope : : serve : : : : se : : : : sea : second : services : serving : : set : : setting : showed : :, : shows : : : Section : :,, : : : : :, : : : : :,,, :,, : :, sounds : : source : : : specified : speculative side : : : : :, spell : : spending : rule :,, : : : : : :, : see : : :, :, :, : :, : :,,, :,, : seen : : :,, :, : : : :,, :,, : : : : : send : sense : : : : : selected : self­incrimina... : : : significant : similar : simple : : simpler : simply : : : : : : : split : spoken : squarely : : stage : stand : standard : : : standardless : : standards : : Stanley : started : State : :, : :, : States :,, : : : : : :, ruled : rules : : : :, : : :, : : ruling : :, S S : : satisfy : : : saying :, : :, : : :, : :, says : : : : :, : : : sitting :, sentence : : : : : :, situation : : : : :, :, : Sixth :,, : :, :, : :,, : :, : situations : six : skeptical : Skilling : :, : sentenced : Solicitor : : : :, :, : solve : : : : sentencer : sentences : : sentencing : :,, : :, : : : : : someone's : somewhat : sorry : : somebody : statute : : : : : :, : :, : :,, :,, : :,,, : :, :,,, : : : : sort : : Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review T : : Sykes : :, : syllogism : system : statute's : statutes : statutory :, :,,, : :, :,,, :,,,,, : :,, :, : : : :, : : : : : :,,, : :,, T :, : :, :, : : : : :, : : :,,, :, : :, : Teague :, stone : stood : : : straightforward substantively table : take : : : : : talk : : talked : talking : : : : : : : : :,,, : : : : step :, : : : strange : street :, : strike : strikes : strong­arm : : : struck : : : : : :, : :, : :, :,,, : : : : subsumed : successive : :, : sufficient : sufficiently : Teague's : : suggest :, : : tell : : : : unconstitutio... : : : : :, : :, :, : :, : : : :, : :,, :, : underlying :, : : : : :, :,,, understand : : : :, : :, : understanding : : : : : : : : : thought :, understood : : : : : : unfair : Unfortunately : three : time : : :, : : :, :, : : : United :,, : : : : : universe : today : : unlawful : told : traditional : treatise : trial : : unlawfully : unremedied : : : : :, suggested : : : : struggling : suggesting : subject : submit : submitted : suggests : : : :, Summerlin : subs : subsequently : : substance : : : : substance­ver... : substantial : : : : :, supplied : support :, :, : : : : : supports : suppose : : substantive : Supreme :, sure : : : : : :,, : : ten : : : terms : : Tribe's : : : test : : :, : :, : : Thank :, : :, : : : theory : thing : : : : : troubled : true : trying : turns : two : : : :, : :, : : : : : : type : : U : untenable : unusual : use : : : : V v : : : : : : vacate : vacatur : : : vague : : : : : : :, things : : ultimate : think :,, : :,, :, :, : : ultimately : vagueness : unaltered : unconstitutio... : : : : : Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review : : : (h) : (h)() : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : A : :,,, world : :,, : : : : worried : want : : wouldn't : :,, : wanted : : : writing : wrong : warnings : Washington : wrongly : : :, :, :,, wasn't : : :, : : way : : : x :, X Y : : : : valid : : : : :, : :, validate : validly : variety : vehicle : vehicular : :, versus : view : : : : : : : violated : :, :,, : : : : :, : : violation : violations : violence :, ways : : : : violent : :, : : void : : : : : We'll : we're : : : :, : : : : :, : :,,, void­for­vagu... we've : : yeah : : : : : years : : :,,, : : : : Z zero : : :, : W : : : Wednesday : : : : weighed : weight :, Welch : : : : : : : ­ : : : : : Welch's : went : : ­year : waived : Walker : : : :,, : : : :, weren't : : :, : :, worded : :, : words : : : : : :, : : :, : work : : : : :,, : : :, works : : : : : : th : word : : Alderson Reporting Company 