 Official ­ Subject to Final Review        IN THE SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES        ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ x                                  JERMAINE SIMMONS, ET AL.,             :             Petitioners               : No. ­         v.                          WALTER J. HIMMELREICH,                           Respondents.           : : : ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ x                                                         Washington, D.C.                         Tuesday, March ,                  The above­entitled matter came on for oral       argument before the Supreme Court of the United States         at : a.m.   APPEARANCES: ROMAN MARTINEZ, ESQ., Assistant to the Solicitor             General, Department of Justice, Washington, D.C.; on       behalf of Petitioners.   CHRISTIAN VERGONIS, ESQ., Washington, D.C.; on behalf of           Respondent. Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review                                    C O N T E N T S ORAL ARGUMENT OF                                     ROMAN MARTINEZ, ESQ.    PAGE    On behalf of the Petitioners                           ORAL ARGUMENT OF   CHRISTIAN VERGONIS, ESQ.      On behalf of the Respondent                            REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF   ROMAN MARTINEZ, ESQ.      On behalf of the Petitioners                           Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review                                       P R O C E E D I N G S                                            (: a.m.)              CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: We'll hear argument       first this morning in Case ­, Simmons v.        Himmelreich.             Mr. Martinez.                            ORAL ARGUMENT OF ROMAN MARTINEZ     ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONERS                 MR. MARTINEZ: Mr. Chief Justice, and may it         please the Court:               When an FTCA action is dismissed under       Section , the resulting judgment of dismissal       triggers the judgment bar for two basic reasons. First,          the bar applies to any FTCA judgment, and a           dismissal counts as a judgment under any sensible         definition of that term.                Second, dismissals implicate the bar's      core purpose, which is to protect the government, its         functions, and its employees from the burdens and        disruptions associated with multiple lawsuits over the       same subject matter ­­               JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Can I ask you a         question? And that is ­­ meaning ­­ the only claims           that are exempted under the Act are Bivens claims, which          are constitutional violations. Why is it that an         Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review employee who has committed a constitutional violation is         now immune from suit merely because the plaintiff's        lawyer made a mistake and didn't file a Bivens claim            first?             MR. MARTINEZ: Your Honor, the core purpose        of the judgment bar, as this Court recognized in Will v.           Hallock, is to protect the government from having to         litigate multiple times over the same claim. And so ­­                      JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: I don't blame you for         that, but you didn't litigate multiple times here. The          exemption applied immediately, and the case was over.                    MR. MARTINEZ: Oh, with respect, Your Honor,        we did litigate multiple times. The FTCA case was          brought; it was pending for over three years.        The plaintiff ­­              JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: The Bivens claim was       brought shortly thereafter. They were both       simultaneously pending before the court.                             MR. MARTINEZ: Right.    JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: So if the court had        elected to address the Bivens claim first, the bar would          have been avoided.               MR. MARTINEZ: Well, I think the two cases          were brought in two different actions. One was brought          several months after the other. And the FTCA action,          Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review which is the one that obviously Congress was considering         when it enacted the judgment bar, was one that took over           three years to conclude, counting the three different        appeals that the plaintiff took ­­                 JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: That still doesn't      answer my point, which is, if the district court had          chosen to answer the Bivens claim first, there would be          no bar in place.                MR. MARTINEZ: Your Honor, I think that         in ­­ in that case, it's true that the ­­ if the Bivens             claim, in theory, that the court could have addressed         that. But in most Bivens cases, and in this Bivens           case, although it hasn't yet been litigated, the ­­ the          employee is going to raise defenses like qualified        immunity and other defenses on the merits. They're         going to take a long time for that claim to get ­­                        JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: That just means that       we're ­­ we're giving district courts the option to         foreclose or close the courtroom door, because the work         is too hard to get to?                  MR. MARTINEZ: No, not at all, Your Honor.         The ­­ the ­­ the courtroom door is never closed to the            Bivens claim, and the plaintiff could have brought his         Bivens claim at the outset. He could have litigated the           Bivens claim without bringing the FTCA claim.       Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review               I think what's important to realize here is       that what Congress did when it enacted the FTCA was          essentially create a new remedy and offer a bargain           to ­­ to tort victims, and it said, look, we're going to            create a brand new remedy directly against the United          States for money damages. It's a great deal for you,            but if you accept the deal, if you accept the bargain,           and you choose to bring an FTCA case, and then you           choose to litigate that case all the way to judgment,          you can't turn around and seek relief under a totally           separate claim involving the same facts. That's a very           sensible and fair bargain.                JUSTICE GINSBURG: And a claim that could         not be brought against the government.                    I mean, the Bivens claim was specifically      saved out of the Westfall Act, so that the employee          would have a Bivens claim. The Bivens claim is           exclusively against the employee. There's no Bivens        liability on the part of the government. So if you           follow the ordinary rules of claim preclusion, there        would be no preclusion here, because there was no         possibility of bringing the Bivens claim against the        government, and claim preclusion would apply only to        claims that could have been brought. So you couldn't          have brought the Bivens claim against the government.        Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review It would have to be a separate claim.                     MR. MARTINEZ: Your Honor, I think that the          judgment bar doesn't merely embrace a rule of res          judicata, it embraces a different rule that turns on the           application of a judgment. Now, with respect to what           Congress did in the Westfall Act, there's no question         that Congress wanted to preserve the option for the         plaintiff to bring a Bivens claim, and there's nothing          in our theory of this case that precludes ­­ that would           have precluded the plaintiff from bringing that Bivens        claim at the outset.                But it's very interesting, and I think it's         very telling what Congress did in the Westfall Act,         as ­­ as you adverted to. In Section (b)() of the            Westfall Act, Congress specifically said that the       exclusivity provision that it had enacted in (b)()        would not apply to Bivens claims. And so it expressly           carved out an exception for such claims.                   But when it did that, it did not carve out a           similar exception for Bivens claims to the judgment bar,         which is the separate provision in section that's         at issue in this case. And so Congress created an           exception to essentially say to plaintiffs, you can        still bring your Bivens claim at the outset, but it          didn't disrupt the original bargain at the heart of the          Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review FTCA, which is that once you bring an FTCA claim, once           you litigate that claim all the way to judgment, you          can't try to take a second bite of the apple by having a              separate claim pending at the same time.                   JUSTICE ALITO: You would have a nice, clean          textual argument if you were willing to argue that         "judgment" means "judgment"; it means any judgment. But         in your reply brief, you say that perhaps a technical or            a procedural judgment is not a judgment under the          judgment bar provision. So what does that mean? What           is a technical or procedural judgment?                   MR. MARTINEZ: So I think, first of all, I           think our primary position is that judgment does mean         judgment in the sense that it's defined. I think we            give nine different dictionary definitions at pages        to of our brief, and I think it ­­ it's ­­ we think               the ­­ the most sensible reading of judgment is the way           it's ordinarily used in legal parlance.                  Now, that said, we do acknowledge in our        reply brief that a couple of those definitions,         including the ones that we ­­ we reproduced, we weren't          trying to cherry pick definitions. We just        reproduced ­­ I think there were six of them from           Black's Law Dictionary from that we reproduced.        And I think three of those definitions seem to say that            Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review a judgment has to resolve issues of the parties' rights          or issues of liabilities. So it's possible ­­ again, we           don't think this is the best reading, but it's possible,          if you only applied one of those three definitions, that          maybe certain kinds of dismissals that are based on         curable procedural defects that really don't get to the         liability issue in the case at all, it's possible         that ­­ that those might not count as judgments. But we            don't think this case presents that.                  JUSTICE ALITO: Why wouldn't a dismissal for         lack of jurisdiction be a procedural judgment?                    MR. MARTINEZ: I think in ­­ in many cases a            dismissal for lack of jurisdiction could well be a         procedural judgment, but not in this case, because         dismissals are special and unique insofar as they are         jurisdictional, as both parties agree. But they're also         substantive, as this Court has said many, many times         over and over again, in cases like Indian Towing and          cases like Levin, most recently, just a few terms ago.                       So when ­­ when the Court says ­­ looks at          an FTCA case, and the Court says there is no ­­ there is             no liability here for the United States government and         gets rid of the case, even if it puts the jurisdictional           label on the dismissal, if it adjudicates the case under          , it's making a substantive determination that        Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review there's no liability. And I actually don't think          that ­­ that my ­­ my friend on the other side would            disagree with that.                 I think in his own brief at pages and ,          he makes clear that a dismissal means that there is            no liability for the ­­                JUSTICE GINSBURG: No liability on the part        of the Federal government under the FTCA, but it's ­­         it's no judgment at all with respect to the Bivens claim           which depends on the employee's conduct. There's been         no adjudication at all of the employee's conduct in the          first action.              MR. MARTINEZ: Right. The first action        often will not even often involve a Bivens claim, but I            think the question ­­ the reason we're discussing this         particular point is because we're trying to figure out         what the meaning of the word "judgment" is in Section           of the FTCA. So we're trying to figure out whether the            adjudication of a particular FTCA case would qualify as          a judgment, and I think there's no question that when an            FTCA case is adjudicated and is conclusively resolved in         favor of the government on the basis of one of the            exceptions, it's true that that's jurisdictional, but       it's also a substantive adjudication of the claim.                     JUSTICE ALITO: But what ­­     Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review                                     JUSTICE KAGAN: Mr. Martinez ­­     JUSTICE ALITO: Go ahead.     JUSTICE KAGAN: If I could ask you about          the ­­ what I take to be the Respondent's primary           argument in the case now, which is the meaning of this           phrase "the provisions of this chapter in Section        (b) shall not apply" ­­                            MR. MARTINEZ: Yes.    JUSTICE KAGAN: ­­ and of course, that would         include the judgment bar. So if you take that provision           for all it's worth, it says that the judgment bar shall           not apply. So what is your response to that?                      MR. MARTINEZ: Well, I think we have two ­­          two responses. Our main response ­­ and this is the one            that we developed the most fully in our reply brief ­­          is that that language does not mean what he say it ­­           what he says it means. We think that that language           means what this Court has essentially said in a number           of cases, most clearly in the Dolan case involving the          Postal Service about ten years ago, and what ­­ what the           Court said there was that the exceptions, that         whole provision, set forth exceptions to the       government's ­­ to the United States waiver of sovereign         immunity. And it identified that waiver of sovereign         immunity as being effected in two different provisions        Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review of the FTCA. That's (b), the jurisdictional        provision, and , the liability provision.                  So we interpret that introductory language,      the way this Court has interpreted it in cases like          Dolan, and said the same thing ­­                  JUSTICE KAGAN: That really does make the ­­        the language something it's not. Instead of the         provisions of this chapter in (b), that's what the         provision says, you're essentially reading it to say        Section of this chapter and Section (b). So          that's a real shift in what the language actually says.                       MR. MARTINEZ: Well, I think I would say two            things to that, Your Honor. First of all, we think           that's consistent with the way that the Court has         interpreted in the prior cases like Dolan and Levin          that I just mentioned. But more fundamentally, I think            the Court already considered and rejected this exact        argument about the introductory language, the "shall not        apply" language, and it rejected that argument in the         Smith case, United States v. Smith. Now, that case ­­                      JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Could you point out       where, in that case, we explicitly addressed that        language and rejected it?                MR. MARTINEZ: You didn't explicitly discuss       that language, but the holding of the case was that one           Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review of the provisions of this Chapter (b) did apply to a            claim. And so that's ­­ that's obviously         inconsistent with the idea ­­ the argument that        Respondent makes, which is that none of the other         provisions of this chapter ­­                                                    JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Let me just ­­      MR. MARTINEZ: ­­ apply.     JUSTICE KAGAN: That's a ­­      MR. MARTINEZ: And if I could ­­ if I could             just ­­ sorry, Justice Kagan.                                         today.             JUSTICE KAGAN: No, no, no.      MR. MARTINEZ: I just wanted to emphasize.         JUSTICE KAGAN: We're all being so polite        MR. MARTINEZ: In response to Justice       Sotomayor's point, Justice Sotomayor suggested that      maybe the Court didn't address it explicitly, and that's         true, but I want to emphasize that the parties did raise            this argument, and we briefed this argument at some         length in our merits brief, so ­­                  JUSTICE KAGAN: is different, though,       right? Because , the text of it, says that the           exceptions shall be applicable to FTCA actions. So         although the Court didn't directly confront this issue,        what it might have said, if it had confronted the issue,           Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review was something like, well, , which comes along later,         and says all the exceptions are applicable to FTCA         actions, essentially says ­­ creates an exception to the         general rule of inapplicability.                MR. MARTINEZ: I think ­­ I ­­ I think that              that would not be the best reading of Smith, because I           think that would suggest that the Court saw some sort of           conflict between the umbrella language, the introductory       clause, and Section (b)(), which is what you're        talking about.                I actually think (b)() helps us,     because what it shows is that Congress shared our         understanding of what the "shall not apply" language        means. Congress enacted Section (b)(), which is        the one that says the exceptions do apply to Section          (b) cases.              CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: You ­­ you       mentioned ­­ I'm sorry.                            MR. MARTINEZ: Sorry. No, please.       CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: You mentioned a       moment ago that you extensively briefed this question.        Did you mean in Smith?                 MR. MARTINEZ: We briefed it in Smith, Your         Honor. And so ­­                CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: So you briefed it        Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review extensively in Smith, and the Court said nothing about         it.             MR. MARTINEZ: No, the ­­ the Court ­­ the          Court's holding was ­­               CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Oh, no. I know the           Court's holding. But in terms of the analysis of it,           the ­­ the Court did nothing along those lines.                     MR. MARTINEZ: Right. Just to step back and          let me set the stage.                   So in ­­ in Smith, the plaintiff in that       case, had made the "shall not apply" language argument         that Respondent makes here. It made it in its brief in            opposition to certiorari. It was made at page .                      The government then devoted a significant       chunk of its brief at pages to to refute that            argument, and I think probably because the argument ­­         the government made a fairly compelling case, the         plaintiff then asserted that argument only in one page         of his response brief at page , and then he raised it            at oral argument on page . And if Respondent's theory           were correct, that would have meant that Smith would         have had had to come out the other way.                     JUSTICE BREYER: Why? I thought ­­ I don't            understand that. I thought the question in Smith, it           was a suit against something happened abroad; isn't that          Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review MR. MARTINEZ: Yes.    JUSTICE BREYER: All right. And ­­ and they          right?                         said that the employee ­­ did they hold ­­ end up           holding that the employee could not bring the suit?                     MR. MARTINEZ: That's right. And it said         that ­­ that ­­ so the suit happened abroad.                     JUSTICE BREYER: The employee could not       bring the suit. And one of the reasons is because the            Bivens action, which that was, is excepted from the         Westfall Act, or is excepted ­­ there's an exception         from the ­­ there's a preface of some kind.                      MR. MARTINEZ: As I recall, Your Honor,         the ­­ the ­­               JUSTICE BREYER: Why would it have had to         come out the other way? If the Act didn't apply, if the             whole thing didn't apply, if the Chapter didn't apply,         if the FTCA didn't apply, including the exceptions from         the FTCA, then how could the employee have ­­ why would           it have come out the other way?                   MR. MARTINEZ: I ­­ I don't recall exactly           whether it was a Bivens claim. I don't believe it was a               Bivens claim. I think essentially what happened was the           case was a case under , because it ­­ it involved a             tort that happened overseas. And the question in the          Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review case was whether the substitution provisions ­­ I think          it was a State tort or some other cause of action. The              question was whether (b), (c), and (d) substitutions        provisions would apply to that claim.                  JUSTICE BREYER: What I'll do is I'll read         that five times. I mean, this is a very complicated ­­             it's like Abbott and Costello and so forth ­­                    (Laughter.)             JUSTICE BREYER: ­­ but by the time you get          through these statutes ­­ okay. I read it. I'll read             it several times. I will absolutely take it in.                       Suppose I come to the conclusion that Smith,         like so many of our cases, deals with a certain number            of issues, and maybe there were alternative grounds and         we didn't get to them, and I conclude that Smith, in            fact, is not a bar to the argument that the other side             is making. On that assumption ­­                              win?                                     MR. MARTINEZ: Yes.    MR. BREYER: ­­ is the case over, and they          MR. MARTINEZ: No.    JUSTICE BREYER: Because?    MR. MARTINEZ: No. And ­­ and just ­­ I ­­            just to tie off the point, I ­­ I think that it's ­­              this was not an issue of whether there were maybe          Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review alternative grounds. This was the ­­ the square issue          in the case. The case could not have come out ­­                       JUSTICE BREYER: I understand you think        Smith is the end of it, and all I am saying is one of               the things I'm paid to do it is read those cases, and            then I have to reach a conclusion of whether Smith is             the end of it. If it's the end of it, you win.                                     MR. MARTINEZ: Right.    JUSTICE BREYER: Now, if it's not the end of          it, do you lose?                MR. MARTINEZ: No. We don't lose for a          number of reasons. First of all, the arguments that we           made in Smith ­­ so even if Smith were not on the table,             that's the hypothesis. I think the arguments about          (b)() that were at issue in Smith, I think the           government's briefs in Smith was absolutely correct, and        (b)() clearly applies to cases involving claims       that fall into the exceptions. We think that's          true as a matter of the text of the FTCA. But even              leaving (b) aside ­­               JUSTICE BREYER: This is the language that's        sort of hanging me up. "The provisions of this chapter           shall not apply to cases that are based on the exercise           of performance of the failure to exercise and perform a          discretionary function." "Shall not apply to." Okay.         Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review Looks pretty good for you.                   But over here it says, "The judgment bar      shall constitute a complete bar." That's very good for           you, but just said it didn't apply. It says this ­­           this chapter does not apply.                 MR. MARTINEZ: I think it says the chapter          doesn't apply ­­                          JUSTICE BREYER: That's in the chapter.       MR. MARTINEZ: A couple of responses, Your         Honor. First of all, just as a textual matter, we think             that the ­­ what ­­ what , what that language says           is the provisions of the chapter don't apply to         categories of potential claims. So the word is they          don't apply to claims.                The judgment bar doesn't operate on the       basis of claims; it operates on the basis of judgments.          It talks about an FTCA judgment.                    A judgment and a claim are obviously       different. A claim is an assertion of a legal right             before it's been adjudicated or while it's being        adjudicated ­­             JUSTICE KAGAN: That's slicing the bologna       pretty thin.              (Laughter.)             JUSTICE KAGAN: I mean, you know, they're         Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review trying to set up language that applies to a whole bunch            of different provisions and saying, you know, all of         these provisions don't apply in the context of lawsuits,         basically.             MR. MARTINEZ: I think that ­­ I think that            if ­­ even if you think that that's slicing the bologna           too thin, I don't think you need to resolve the case on             the basis of that argument because I think there are two            additional very strong reasons to reject their reading        of the introductory clause in addition to Smith, which         we've already talked about.                The ­­ the next reason is that it's ­­ that          that reading of Smith is inconsistent with numerous        other provisions of the original FTCA.                  Justice Kagan, you just said that, you know,        the plain text seems to say that they wanted to exempt            claims from all of the provisions of the FTCA, and           arguably, that's what the literal language seems to say.         But if you look at the original FTCA, that ­­ that           cannot possibly be what ­­ what that language means.         And so let me point you just to four different          provisions of the original FTCA that don't seem to make          sense under that reading.                The first of those provisions is Section        of the original FTCA, and we've reproduced that at         Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review page a of the appendix to our brief. Section is            the definitional provision which defines certain key       terms for use throughout in the ­­ throughout the FTCA,          and it defines several terms that are used in multiple          places within .               So if Respondent's theory were correct that       the other provisions of ­­ every other provision of the          FTCA doesn't apply to claims, those definitions        wouldn't apply to claims ­­                 JUSTICE KAGAN: Now that's where the       Respondents use an argument very much like the one you          just used. They say definitions don't apply to claims;          isn't that right?               MR. MARTINEZ: Well, I ­­ I think if it's            slicing the bologna thin for us, it's slicing the         bologna thin for them. And ­­                  JUSTICE KAGAN: It's a wash.                   MR. MARTINEZ: The good news for us is that          we have three other provisions that I think also don't           make any sense based on their reading. And so if you            look at Section of the original FTCA, and that's at           page a of our brief, Section is the one that           applies the Federal Rules of Civil Procedure.                   Now obviously, the Federal Rules of Civil       Procedure are supposed to be used to adjudicate claims         Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review that fall within . But in their reading of the           statute, the Federal Rules of Civil Procedure would        appear not to apply.                If you look to the very next page and the          very next provision ­­               JUSTICE ALITO: Wouldn't they apply anyway?       Do you need a provision?                              MR. MARTINEZ: Congress ­­    JUSTICE ALITO: Specifically saying that      they would apply?               MR. MARTINEZ: I think you probably didn't,         but Congress seemed to think that you did. And in all            the other statutes, like the Tucker Act and like the          Suits and Admiralty Act where the ­­ where Congress is          waiving the sovereign immunity of the United States, it         thought it needed to set forth a specific provision in           the statute waiving sovereign immunity applying the       civil rules.              And in fact, the Fifth Circuit in the case,         just five ­­ five or six years before the FTCA was           passed, had said that the rules would not apply to a           Tucker Act claim. So I think Congress was ­­ clearly            had this problem in mind and was trying to address that.                       JUSTICE BREYER: Why is that bad? So ­­ I           mean, look, as I read it simply, if I can, you look at               Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review the top of , "The provisions of this chapter shall          not apply to." And then we have a long list. One of               them is an action rising a claim based on a foreign             country.             So I bring a lawsuit. I was hurt in Mexico.              This says the FTCA doesn't apply. And so you say, you            know, if it doesn't apply, that means the definitions         don't apply. So I say fine. It doesn't apply.                                    MR. MARTINEZ: But if you would ­­       JUSTICE BREYER: And if I say ­­ you say the            Rules of Civil Procedure don't apply. Fine. Nothing          applies.                                     MR. MARTINEZ: Right.    JUSTICE BREYER: You don't have an action.        MR. MARTINEZ: But if you file the action         anyway, and then the Court is adjudicating the action,         and at issue in the action is whether, for example,          the ­­ the action involves a Federal agency, which is a            defined term, or an employee of the government, which is          a defined term, then you would have to ­­ ordinarily you           would ­­ you would think that the definitional        provisions would shed light on that question.                   And so if you are correct, though, that ­­        that the definitional provision doesn't apply, then you        wouldn't know where to look for the definitions. And if           Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review you were to lose that case, and ­­ and if the government            were to win and you wanted to take an appeal, your right            to appeal is also one of the provisions of this chapter,           and that's Section (a) of the original FTCA, and         that's reproduced at page a of our brief.                    And so there's a ­­ the FTCA created a          special appellate review provision that essentially gave       parties an option to take an appeal either to the ­­ the            circuit courts or to the court of claims. So it's a            special FTCA­specific provision.               But under Respondent's theory, that appeal      provision wouldn't apply because it's one of the other         provisions of this ­­ of this chapter.                   And then the final provision I want to point          to ­­             JUSTICE KAGAN: But presumably just then the        normal appeals provisions would apply. You would still         be able to appeal a case; you just wouldn't have this            special court of claims option.                 MR. MARTINEZ: Right. But ­­ but that's         what Respondent says. And he says that ­­ that this, of            course, makes perfect sense because Congress didn't want        the court of claims to be adjudicating the ­­ the          applicability of the exceptions.                 But that argument doesn't make sense for two        Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review reasons. First of all, if the government were to lose           with respect to , the case would go forward and be           resolved on the merits, and maybe government loses that         too. It could then take an appeal to the court of            claims, at which point the court of claims would be          confronted if the government appealed the       determination with exactly the kind of issue that         Respondent says the court of claims wasn't supposed to         be considering.              Moreover, when ­­ when Congress recodified      the FTCA's appellate review provisions in , just two         years later, it sent the provision allowing appeals        going to the court of claims to U.S.C. , which is            a different provision. It's ­­ it's not a provision           within Chapter . But there, when it said the ­­ what            the court of claims' jurisdiction was, it said that the          court had jurisdiction over any action brought under the         FTCA; in other words, actions that were ­­ that ­­ that           potentially implicated .               Now, we agree with Respondents that the       recodification didn't change the meaning of the original        FTCA, but what that means is that Congress ­­ Congress          contemplated both before and after the recodification,       that all of these issues would be able to go to the            court of claims if the parties agreed.       Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review             JUSTICE BREYER: Can you say the other two         before you ­­ I'm sorry.                             MR. MARTINEZ: Yes. I ­­       JUSTICE BREYER: Because I broke into what         you were saying before.                MR. MARTINEZ: So ­­ so just to ­­ just to           recap: The definitional provision, Section , the        Rules of Civil Procedure provision, Section , the        appellate review provision, Section (a), and then the        final one ­­ and this is the one that is both true ­­ a              problem as of the original FTCA, and it creates         massively disruptive consequences with respect to, in       practical terms today, that Section of the original         FTCA, and it's the provision that's now codified at         Section (a) of the current FTCA.                  So let me say a word about this provision.                      CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: That's the one on        a of your ­­               MR. MARTINEZ: That's ­­ that's the one on         a. If you want to look at the original version, it            hasn't really changed. You can also look at the ­­ at            the current version. And I apologize for the confusion,           you know. There are a lot of statutory provisions in            this case. The current version of (a) is at page           a. Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review Now, this is ­­   JUSTICE KAGAN: Before ­­ if I could just                                  interrupt very quickly.                           MR. MARTINEZ: Yes.    JUSTICE KAGAN: Of the other three, which        ones are still current today?                 MR. MARTINEZ: So the definitional provision       is still there. The Federal Rule of Civil Procedure          provision is not there. The appellate review provision,         interestingly, has been ­­ or has been sent to a          different provision ­­ has been sent outside ­­ outside         of Chapter .               The one that matters the most is ­­ is         Section (a), and that's the provision that says that         the FTCA is the exclusive remedy and precludes State         tort suits against agencies that would otherwise have        been suable understand there sue­and­be­sued authority.      And the idea behind that provision is to put,         essentially, all Federal agencies on the same footing,        whether or not they have independent authority to sue         and be sued when it comes to tort claims.                     If ­­ if ­­ under Respondent's theory,       Section (a)'s protections did not apply to        claims. And what that means is that agencies that have           sue­and­be­sued authority are now subject to such       Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review claims.             Now, that ­­ that would, in very practical        terms, would massively expand the United States       government direct liability for ­­ for ­­ in tort. And           I think the biggest problem, and the most concrete         example I can give you is with respect to the Postal            Service.             Now, we know from Section (b) of the        FTCA that Congress wanted to eliminate the possibility        that the government would be liable for the loss of mail           or for the negligent transmission of ­­ of mail. But           the Postal Service has independent sue­and­be­sued      authority. So if (a), as Respondent says, doesn't         apply, then what that means, essentially, is that the         Postal Service can now be sued under his theory for          negligently transmitting the mail.                JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: I'm sorry. How does any         of this save you from an individual suit? Meaning under           any reading you give this provision, an individual who         chooses not to go under and simply sue the          individuals involved could do that ­­                 MR. MARTINEZ: Right.                JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: ­­ either under a Bivens         claim or under the Administrative Act, et cetera.                    MR. MARTINEZ: Yeah.    Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review             JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: What you're saying is,       you have the opportunity, as the United States, to step          in if you choose. Is that it?                    MR. MARTINEZ: If ­­ if ­­ if a Bivens claim            is brought, then the judgment bar would have no         operation. But that is consistent with the purpose of          the judgment bar, which ­­ which is to ensure that ­­          that a suit is only brought once. And I think ­­                         JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Putting that aside, how       does your reading save you from all of this definitional          discussion we've had for the last five minutes? It's          still going to happen, or can happen. Why does the           reading being proposed by the other side create a         difficulty?             MR. MARTINEZ: Well, I think if the Bivens          claim can be brought, then the Bivens claim is brought          against the individual employee, so the United States        government is not liable for ­­ you know, to take the           example we said, for the negligent transmission of mail.                     And if the Court's ­­ unless the Court has         questions, I'll reserve my time for rebuttal.                   CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, counsel.                   Mr. Vergonis.             ORAL ARGUMENT OF CHRISTIAN VERGONIS                    ON BEHALF OF THE RESPONDENT     Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review             MR. VERGONIS: Mr. Chief Justice, and may it         please the Court:               Through Section and the judgment bar,       Congress has established a fair and sensible statutory         scheme where the government accepts derivative superior       liability for the torts of its employees, a plaintiff          who tries his claim against the government may not seek          a second bite at the apple or duplicative recovery by          suing the employee personally. That's the fair bargain.                     But where the United States has not waived        derivative liability, the judgment bar is not a gotcha          provision that prevents a plaintiff who sued the wrong          defendant from thereafter suing the correct defendant,       the primarily liable employee. Those claims are outside         of the bargain. And the "shall not apply" directive of           Section makes this perfectly clear.                  As some of the Justices recognized during       counsel's presentation, that language says that the       other provisions of the Act shall not apply. This          unambiguously includes the judgment bar.                 And there's no inconsistency between that      understanding of the "shall not apply" language and any         of the other clauses or any of this Court's cases.                      JUSTICE ALITO: It can't be read in a         strictly literal sense because then itself wouldn't        Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review apply.             MR. VERGONIS: Well, that's somewhat      circular, Justice Alito.               JUSTICE ALITO: All right. That's one way         that we're out of a purely literal reading of this.                       MR. VERGONIS: I think it says the FTCA          shall not apply to these provisions. It has to apply to            itself. No other ­­ it's ­­ the literal interpretation          is not inconsistent with any of the other provisions not          applying, and it's not inconsistent with this Court's        decision in Smith. In Smith, this Court focused on the           language of (b), which said Westfall Act claims        shall be subject to the exceptions. That language,         combined with legislative history that Smith examined,       where Congress said if a claim is barred against the ­­           against the government, it's also barred against the        employee, was sufficient to resolve Smith.                  JUSTICE BREYER: What about ­­                 JUSTICE ALITO: Smith ­­ Smith could be        explained on the absurdity rule, could it not?                    MR. VERGONIS: Smith ­­ Smith doesn't need        to be explained on the absurdity rule. Smith has plain           language later enacted, language that governs over the        earlier ­­             JUSTICE ALITO: Well, the whole point of the          Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review Westfall Act was to allow substitution, so if that         didn't apply, then there wouldn't be substitution and        there would be no point in having the Westfall Act.          Correct?             MR. VERGONIS: Well, certainly you could       look at it that way, so yes.                     I mean, for a provision to overcome the        literal language of the "shall not apply" directive, you         would need an absurd result from following it to ­­ to           overcome the language. And maybe you had that absurd          result in Westfall or any of these other provisions that          could justify it, but there's no ­­ they point to no           absurd result that can overcome the import of the plain          language in this case.                CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: What if you look at         the definitional provisions? Okay, has a lot of           terms that would be subject to some litigation or         confusing ­­ who's ­­ who's ­­ confusion. Who's an          employee of the government? Is the provision construed         to include a contractor? Those are all spelled out in            the definitional provision.               Now, under your argument, those definitions      are off the table and you can litigate for days on end            about, does this cover a contractor of the United          States? And you're saying, well, normally, you'd say         Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review let's look at the definition, and it says ­­ well, yeah,           it says that right there. But under your argument, no,           the definitions are not included.                 MR. VERGONIS: No, we think the definitions        are included, because definitions govern statutory      terms, they don't govern claims. And I don't think,           with all due respect, that that's slicing the bologna         thin at all. The definitions apply to the terms, and           the ­­              CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, it's a ­­                    MR. VERGONIS: ­­ excepts claims.                  CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: It's a provision of         the chapter ­­              MR. VERGONIS: And it doesn't ­­                  CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: ­­ under your       reading, which is a strict literal one, that it shall           not apply. Those provisions shall not apply to any          claims. Okay. Well, somebody brings a claim against a            contractor of the United States, and again, you're        saying, well, we don't look to the definitions in the          Act to determine who's a contractor of the United          States, because that provision doesn't apply.                  MR. VERGONIS: Well, you can look to the         definitions to understand what says. And then once          you have that understanding, the other ­­ the        Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review substantive provisions don't apply. And I'll give an         example. Federal Rule of Evidences states that         these rules do not apply to a certain category of cases,            including preliminary proceedings in a criminal case.        Federal Rule of Evidence defines what a criminal          case is.              Nobody would say it's inconsistent with the       "do not apply" directive of Federal Rule to read          the definition of a criminal case to figure out when the            Federal Rules of Evidence don't apply, or that that         somehow gives license to courts to then decide which         other rules do and do not apply. None of the rules            apply to certain aspects of a criminal case, but you can            refer to the definitional rule to understand what a         criminal case is.               CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: What about the       review provisions? Those seem to be a particular ­­          particularly problematic aspect. The review provisions,       I take it, don't apply either.                  MR. VERGONIS: They don't. And are you         talking about the appellate review provisions?                  CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: (a), Section .                   MR. VERGONIS: Yeah, is the appellate        review provisions. The decisions were appealable to the         circuit courts through the predecessor to USC ,         Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review Judicial Code . So parties could rely on that to           appeal to the circuit court. So the special review          provision to the court of claims did not apply to           dismissals. And we suggest that that was sensible         because Congress could have wanted judgments against the        United States, money judgments against the United States        primarily to be reviewed by the specialized court of         claims, but to have ordinary dismissals under ,        jurisdictional dismissals, reviewed in the ordinary      course by the circuit.                JUSTICE BREYER: I can see that, but ­­ that           is, imagine a plaintiff and the plaintiff brings a          lawsuit against the Post Office for negligence. The         government's defense is that this is a discretionary         function, a particular thing. And the plaintiff says,          you're right, it's a discretionary function. And now          it's dismissed. All right.                    Now, if that last thing he read doesn't     apply because it was discretionary function and fell        within , they then could see the Post Office on the           basis that the Post Office has independent authority to         sue or be sued. And it's hard to believe, he says, that             Congress somehow, when they passed these words, "does        not apply", suddenly wanted to revive all kinds of suits          against, for example, the Post Office, which otherwise        Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review would have been barred by that last provision that he          read.             MR. VERGONIS: And the Post Office is a         great example, Your Honor, because when Congress enacted        the sue­and­be­sued clause for the Post Office, they        inserted another provision now at U.S.C.,       Section , which said that tort claims against the         Post Office shall be subject to the provisions of the          Federal Tort Claims Act.                JUSTICE BREYER: So we don't have to worry         about the Post Office, the example that he gave. But           there may be others. Sue and be sued is a fairly ­­ I               mean, do we know what we're talking about? I like to             try to know what I'm talking about. And do we know here             what the reach of exempting that last provision from ­­         just erasing it in a discretionary action suit will be?                       MR. VERGONIS: Two answers to that. The         discretionary function exception is a common­law       exception, so it may be that suable agencies have that          defense available to them anyway. It existed before the          FTCA was created as a common­law defense.                    So the suable agencies who could be sued        again can raise other defenses, as this Court held in          FDIC v. Meyer, just because a suable agency can be sued            on a claim doesn't mean that the claim exists against           Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review the suable agency. And three of the exceptions under           are suable agencies themselves.                  So if you read as applying to the        exceptions, their reading of the statute, you create a         situation where, say, the Panama Canal Company is        sued ­­ well, on their reading bars that suit          against the Panama Canal Company and makes the FTCA         exclusive, but then under the FTCA bars the claim          against the ­­ arising out of the activities of the          Panama Canal Company.               JUSTICE BREYER: So ­­ so you're ­­ can I ­­           are you saying this, in essence? Even if there are           other provisions that aren't erased, even if there        aren't, this particular erasure means that in an action         that is dismissed ­­ an action against the government ­­         for the reasons listed in those exceptions ­­ for         example, a foreign country, a discretionary exception ­­         in such an action, you can sue the employee where          ordinary principals of res judicata wouldn't bar you        from suing the employee after all. It's a different           party.             MR. VERGONIS: That's our position, and ­­       and you can only sue the employee today on         constitutional tort claims under Bivens.                 JUSTICE BREYER: But you're saying any       Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review claim, if it falls within ­­ if the reason for the bar,            if the reason for the dismissal falls within the         exception, and if they wanted to change that, they         should have said so.                MR. VERGONIS: That's ­­ that's exactly       right, Your Honor. And ­­ and ­­                   JUSTICE KENNEDY: Is ­­ is that another way         of saying that the judgment bar applies just to         judgments of the merits, or is that somewhat different         from your argument?               MR. VERGONIS: That's one of our arguments,        Your Honor. We get to the same result ­­                     JUSTICE KENNEDY: Isn't that the same as the         argument you just made? Because I'm curious to know,          if ­­ if we think Smith was an interpretation of ­­ of            , and you had to get around Smith and it's awkward           to do it, what's your second argument? Is that the           argument you're now making to Justice Breyer, or is it          different from saying that what we're talking about is         judgment on the merits?                MR. VERGONIS: Well, as I ­­ as I          understood, Justice Breyer's question was the      consequences of our argument, and our three arguments        lead to the same consequences. But, yes, Your Honor, we           take the position that "judgment" means a judgment that          Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review would, under the common law, have preclusive effect.                    So if you move away from the "shall not         apply" language, which we think is the most        straightforward way of resolving this case, and to the         language of the judgment bar itself, we have two         arguments under the judgment bar.                 One is that the judgment bar is only        triggered by an action under Section (b). And,         again, the "shall not apply" language says (b) shall         not apply to the excepted claims. Therefore, this is          not a judgment ­­ a dismissal is not a judgment              under the FTCA.               JUSTICE GINSBURG: What of the government's       argument that once you get wind that a exception is            going to get the government off the hook, before a          judgment is entered, which might raise the judgment bar,         you can voluntarily ­­ voluntarily dismiss your case        against the government so you won't face a judgment?          You can amend your complaint, if ­­ if you sued them           both originally, to drop the government, or you can take          a voluntary dismissal.               What ­­ how do you answer that?                   MR. VERGONIS: I think once you've ­­ once          they've answered the complaint, Your Honor, I don't         think the plaintiff can just dismiss or amend the         Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review complaint without seeking leave from the Court, which        may result in a judgment of dismissal. Even a judgment             of voluntary dismissal, as I understand their view, that          "judgment" means any judgment would trigger the judgment        bar, under that reading.                So to return to Justice Kennedy's question,       on judgment in particular, we think it incorporates        principles of res judicata. And the Court has looked to           principles of res judicata to inform the word "judgment"         in other contexts.               In the relitigation exception to the      Anti­Injunction Act, the Federal courts are empowered to        enjoin State court proceedings to protect or effectuate        judgments of the Federal courts, and this Court has         viewed that as ­­ viewed judgment errors incorporating        principles of res judicata, and only judgments with res         judicata effect can be enjoined under that relitigation        provision. I think that's a great analogy to this case.                         JUSTICE KAGAN: Could I take you back to the           "shall not apply" language for a second? When ­­ when            you were speaking to the Chief Justice, you said, well,          the definitional section will continue to apply because        definitions apply to terms and not to claims.                    But then Mr. Martinez said something very       similar to that. He said the judgment bar applies to           Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review judgments, not claims. So if you're right as to that,           why isn't he right as well? And the consequence of his            being right was ­­ is that he would have taken the           judgment bar out of that sweeping "shall not apply"         language as well.               MR. VERGONIS: The judgment bar actually       uses the language of claims. It says, "The judgment          shall constitute a complete bar to any action by the           claimant by reason of the same subject matter against         the employee whose act or omission gave rise to the          claim."             So the judgment bar is talking about barring        a claim. A claim ­­ a claim under the FTCA can be               brought vicariously against the government as employer.       It's agreed to subject itself to respondeat superior        liability on the claim. Where these claims are         accepted, you know, the ­­ you know, ordinarily the         judgment bar would then say if you have a judgment, the            claim can't be brought against the employee.                    says it shall not apply to these sorts         of claims. So when you have an intentional tort claim           for which the government has not accepted respondeat        superior liability, the bar on bringing that claim        against the employee does not apply.                  So it's ­­ it's not the context of where you          Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review need to read a definition in order to sensibly apply the            words of the provision. It's ­­ it's actually an          operative provision that operates on a claim. And it's,           in this context, purporting to operate on a claim that's           been excluded by the "shall not apply" language.                    JUSTICE ALITO: To go back to the point you          were making before, under your interpretation, does the        judgment bar add anything to principles of claim        preclusion?             MR. VERGONIS: We think so, Your Honor. We          think that's ­­ understanding the principles of claim        preclusion that were in existence in ­­                   JUSTICE ALITO: It was in existence in ,         but today would ­­ it would be superfluous.                    MR. VERGONIS: Today it may be superfluous        with modern principles of res judicata, where we've        developed nonmutality and defendants are able to assert        defense uses of res judicata. But at the time ­­ and I             think this is a strong contextual clue of what Congress           was trying to accomplish with this provision ­­ a         judgment against an employee would be preclusive against        a claim against the employer on the same subject matter.          And that's because of reasons of potential       indemnification by the employee owed to the employer so         that the employee could potentially be sued twice on the          Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review same claim, once by the plaintiff and once by the          employer seeking indemnification. But it did not        operate the other way.                  A judgment in ­­ in , under the       restatement against the employer, didn't bar the       plaintiff from then suing the employee. So the judgment          bar fills this gap and explains that you need         directionality of the statute, explains why Congress       enacted a bar that bars suits against the employee, but           didn't enact a bar the other way that bars suits against            the government's ­­              JUSTICE GINSBURG: But it is obsolete in the         sense that modern res judicata law would take care of          the ­­ it wouldn't matter whether you sued the         government first or the employee case first. It would          be preclusive, because you've adjudicated the grounds of        liability.             MR. VERGONIS: That's right. A ­­ a case            that's tried on the merits would be preclusive against         either, under my understanding of modern preclusion       principles. It would not have then.                   And ­­ and this case, this type of case         where a claim is dismissed on a jurisdictional ground           that the government hasn't accepted respondeat superior       liability, doesn't involve any adjudication of the       Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review substantive merits of the singular tort claim that the         plaintiffs ­­ you know, the injury the plaintiffs        suffered.             He tried to bring the case against the        government, but it fell outside of the bargain. The          government, at the threshold, has found not to have         accepted respondeat superior liability on this claim.                   JUSTICE ALITO: So you want us to decide         this case based on a literal reading of . But the             Sixth Circuit did not decide the case on that ground,          and we don't have to address that, do we?                     So why should we not decide whether the        Sixth Circuit was correct in its reasoning and apply the          same literal reading approach that you recommend to ­­        with respect to to the judgment bar, and hold that           a judgment is a judgment, and not necessarily a judgment            on the merits? And then ­­ because the issue under            is, as I think the argument has shown, is very           complicated.             MR. VERGONIS: Two points, Your Honor:       First, I don't think the argument was waived. This is            not a separate ground for relief. It's a separate            argument.             JUSTICE ALITO: It's a separate ­­ it's ­­         it's another ground for affirmance, correct? It's an         Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review alternative grounds for affirmance, which we have       discretion to decide whether we want to reach or not.                      MR. VERGONIS: I think it's an alternative         argument for the same ground for affirmance. The         question presented was whether a dismissal triggers         the judgment bar. This case is about the interaction of           two provisions, and it would be very artificial for the          Court to ignore the text of one of those provisions and           focus solely on the text of the other provision.                     Substantively, I think the term "judgment"       is an ambiguous term whereas the term "shall not apply"          is not an ambiguous term. "Judgment" can mean different          things in different contexts. It can mean different         things within the different provisions of the Act. And          some of the provisions of the Act, it seems to me, mean            a ward against the government. They talk about the fee           as a percent of the judgment. They talk about how the             judgment is to be paid. That's .                    So "judgment" is an inherently ambiguous      word, and the Court would need to grapple with that          ambiguity if it tries to resolve the case that way.                      And again, I think the issue was raised in          our bio. It's logically intertwined with the question,         so I think the Court really, in order to answer the            second part of the question intelligently, the Court        Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review needs to address the first part of the question as well.                                                           If Your Honors have no further questions.       CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, counsel.       MR. VERGONIS: Thank you.     CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Mr. Martinez, you       have two minutes remaining.               REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF ROMAN MARTINEZ                   ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONERS                 MR. RAMIREZ: Thank you, Mr. Chief Justice.                      I have two main points that I'd like to        make.             First, with respect to the Postal Service,       it's true that the Postal Reorganization Act says that         the FTCA applies to torts that involve the Postal         Service. But Respondent's whole argument is that the         FTCA's protections of sue­and­be­sued agencies doesn't      protect sue­and­be­sued agencies from claims that      involve the exceptions within . And so by his own           argument, the ­­ the postal ­­ the postal service,         because ­­ because if it's faced with a claim involving           the negligent transmission of mail, the Postal Service        would not be able to take advantage of (a)'s         protections.               I think the Court might want to look to the         First Circuit's decision in the Davric case, where it         Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review addressed this issue. It rejected Respondent's       "shall not apply" argument, and it said that it would          lead to results that Congress could not have conceivably         intended, and we agree with that.                   The second point I'd like to make is just        about the ­­ the purpose of the FTCA. We think that            Congress very clearly wanted to give victims a choice          between suing the government and suing the responsible        employee directly, but it didn't want to force the         government to litigate over the same facts twice.                    That purpose is squarely implicated. It's       not superfluous. The judgment bar is not superfluous         under modern rules because, even today, if the ­­ if the           government has to defend indirectly against a Bivens         action and also has to defend against an FTCA action,          the same concerns about alleviating the burdens and        disruptions appear today as ­­ just as they would have          in .              JUSTICE GINSBURG: That's the government's      choice. They're not obliged to defend the Bivens         action.             MR. RAMIREZ: That's true. But I think when           Congress enacted the FTCA, it recognized, as a practical          matter, that the government, when ­­ when ­­ was         typically stepping into conduct the defense of employees        Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review sued under State torts.                So for all of these reasons, Your Honor, we         ask you to restore the bargain at the heart of the           original FTCA. We ask you to enforce the judgment bar,           and we ask you to reverse the decision below.                     CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, counsel.       The case is submitted.                (Whereupon, at : a.m., the      case in the   above­entitled matter was submitted.)    Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review Official ­ Subject to Final ReviewA a.m : : : Abbott : able : : : : above­entitled : : abroad : : absolutely : : absurd :, : absurdity : : accept :, accepted : : : : accepts : accomplish : acknowledge : act : : : :, : : :, : : : : :, : : : : :, : action : : :, : : :, :,,, : : :,, : : :,, actions : : : : activities : add : addition : additional : address : : : : : addressed : : : adjudicate : adjudicated : :, : adjudicates : adjudicating : : adjudication :,, : Administrative : Admiralty : advantage : adverted : affirmance : :, agencies : :, : : : :, agency : : : ago : : : agree : : : agreed : : ahead : AL : Alito : : : : :, : :,,, :, : : alleviating : allow : allowing : alternative : : :, ambiguity : ambiguous :,, amend :, analogy : analysis : answer :, : : answered : answers : Anti­Injunction : anyway : : : apologize : appeal :,, :, : : appealable : appealed : appeals : : : appear : : APPEARAN... : appellate : : : : :, appendix : apple : : applicability : applicable : : application : applied : : applies : : : : : : : : apply : : :, : :, : : : :,,, : :, :,,,, : :,, :,,, :,,,,, : :, : : :,, :,, :, :,,, :,,,, :, : :, : :, : :, : :, : : : : : applying : : : approach : arguably : argue : argument : :,, :, : : : : :, : :, :,, : : : : : : : :, :,, : :, : : :,, : arguments :, : : : Alderson Reporting Company Alderson Reporting Company arising : artificial : aside : : aspect : aspects : assert : asserted : assertion : Assistant : associated : assumption : authority : :, : : available : avoided : awkward : B back : : : bad : bar :, : : :, : : : :, : :,, : : :, : : :, :,, : :, :,,,, : : :,,, : : : : bar's : bargain :,, : :, : : barred :, : barring : bars :, : : based : : : : : basic : basically : basis : :, : : behalf :, :,, : : : believe : : briefed : :,, briefs : bring : :, : :, : : bringing : : : : brings : : :,, : :, : : :,, : : categories : category : cause : certain : : : :, broke : brought :, certiorari : certainly : cetera : change : :, : :,, : :, :, : changed : : chapter : : :, :, : : :,,, : :, : : : best : : biggest : bio : bite : : Bivens : : :, :, :,,, : :, :,,, :,,, : :, :,, : :, Canal :,, : : :, bunch : burdens : c : : : : C Official ­ Subject to Final Review : : : civil :, :, : : : claim :,, comes : :, : : codified : combined : come : close : closed : : :,, clue : :,,, Code : :,,, :,,, : :,, : :,, :,, : :, : :, : : : :, : : : : :, : Company :, : :, :,,, compelling :, : :,,, :, :, : committed : common : common­law complaint : complete : : : :, : : : cherry : Chief :, :,, : : : : : :, : :, : :,, : care : carve : carved : case : :, :, :, :, :,, :,, :, : : :, choice :, :, : choose :, : :, :, :, : : :, : : : :,,,, :, : :,,, :,, : : : :, chunk : circuit : : : :, : : chooses : chosen : CHRISTIAN : : : : Circuit's : circular : cases : : : : concerns : conclude : complicated : : conceivably claimant : claims :, : :, : : :,, : :, :, : :, : :,,, :, : : : :,, concrete : :, :, conduct : : : : :, : : :, : conflict : : : conclusively conclusion : : claims' : clause : : : clauses : clean : clear : : clearly : confront : confronted : : confusing : confusion : : Congress : Black's : blame : bologna : : :, : brand : Breyer : :,, : :,, :,, : : :, :, : : : :, : Breyer's : brief :,, : : : :, : :, : Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review : devoted : dictionary : drop : due : duplicative : days : deal :, counts : couple : : deals : decide : :,, : court :, : : : : :,,, : :, :,,, : :, course : : : : : :, : : : :,, : : : decisions : defects : defend :, : :,, decision : :, :, : :, :,, :, : :,, : :,, :,,,, :, : defendants : : :,, : defense : :,,, :,,, : : : Court's :, : : : : defined : :, consequence : consequences : :, considered : considering : : consistent : : constitute : : constitutional : : : defendant : direct : : : :, : directly : : : : defenses :, disagree : : different : : : : : : : :, : : : :, :,,, difficulty : directionality : directive : discretion : discretionary : :, : :, : EE : :, earlier :effect : : effected :effectuate :either :: ::elected :eliminate :embrace :embraces :emphasize ::employee :: :, :,,, : ::, : : :, : :, : :, : :, : :employee's:, employees :: :employer ::, : :empowered:enact :enacted : : : :: :: :enforce :enjoin :enjoined :ensure :construed : courtroom : defines :, contemplated : : courts : : definition : discuss : : context : : : :, : : : contexts : contextual : continue : contractor cover : create :, : : created : : : :, : creates : : : core : : correct : : : : : : :, Costello : counsel : : : counsel's : count : counting : country : criminal :, :,, curable : curious : current : :, : D d : : D.C :,, damages : Davric : : : : discussing : definitional : discussion : dismiss :, dismissal : : :, : : : :, : : : :, : : : :, : : definitions : :,, : :, : : : :,,,, : : Department : depends : derivative : : determination : : dismissals : :, :,, dismissed : : : : disrupt : disruptions : : disruptive : district :, Dolan : determine : developed : door :, :, Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review : : : :, : : : : : :, : :,, five : : : : focus : focused : follow : following : footing : force : foreclose : foreign : : function : :,, : functions : fundamentally : further : G G : gap : general : : GINSBURG : : : : : : good :, gives : giving : go : :, forth : : give : : : : : : : : : : : going :, forward : found : four : friend : FTCA :, :, : :, :, : :, :, : : : :, : gotcha : : :, govern :, government :,, :,, : : :, : : :, : : : : : :, : : : :, : : : exempting : exemption : exercise : entered : erased : erasing : erasure : errors : ESQ :, : existence : existed : : :, essence : essentially : : : : : : : : : established : et : : Evidence : : Evidences : exact : exactly : : : examined : example : : : : : :, : excepted : : exists : expand : explained : : explains :, explicitly : : : expressly : extensively : : F face : faced : fact : : facts : : failure : fair : :, fairly : : fall : : : : falls :, exception : favor : :, : : :, FDIC : Federal : : : : : exceptions : :, : :, : : : : :, : : excepts : excluded : exclusive : : exclusively : exclusivity : exempt : exempted : :, : : :, :,,, : :, fee : fell : : Fifth : figure :, : file : : fills : final : : fine :, first :, : : : : : governs : grapple : great : : : ground : :,, : grounds : : : : H Hallock : hanging : happen :, happened : :,, hard : : hear : heart : : held : helps : Himmelreich : : history : hold : : holding : :, : Honor :, :, : : : : : : :, : : : : : : : : :,, : :, :, : : :,, :, : :, : : : :,, :, : hypothesis : :, : :, :, Honors : hook : hurt : : I government's : : idea : : identified : FTCA's : : FTCA­specific : fully : Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review :,,, :, :, : :, :, : :,,, :,, :,,,,, :,, :,,,, : :, :, : :,, :,,, :, : : judgments : : :, : :, : judicata : : :, :, : : : Judicial : jurisdiction : : :, : :, :,,, :,, :,, : :, : :,, : : :, :,, : : :, :,, : :, : :, Laughter : : : :, : :,, : :, : :, : :, :,, : : law : : lawsuits : lawsuit : : : : : Justices : justify : K Kagan :,, : :, :,, :, : Levin : :, : :, : : ignore : imagine : immediately : immune : immunity : :, : : implicate : implicated : : import : important : inapplicability : include : : included :, includes : including : : : inconsistency : inconsistent : : :, : incorporates : incorporating : indemnification : : independent : : : : intended : intentional : interaction : interesting : interestingly : interpret : interpretation : : : interpreted : : interrupt : intertwined : introductory :, : : involve : : :, involved : : involves : involving : : : : issue : : :, : :, : : : : : issues :, : : Indian : indirectly : individual : J : J : : individuals : inform : inherently : injury : inserted : insofar : intelligently JERMAINE : judgment : :,, : : : :, : :,,, :,,,, :, :, : :, : :, lawyer : lead : : leave : leaving : legal : : legislative : length : let's : liabilities : liability : : : :,, : : : : :, :, : liable : : : license : light : lines : list : listed : literal : : :, : : :, litigate :,, : : : : litigated :, litigation : logically : : :, KENNEDY jurisdictional :, :, : Kennedy's : : : : key : kind : : Justice : : kinds : : know : : :, :, : :, : : : :, :, :, :, :,,, :,,, :,, :, :, : :, : :, : :, : : :, : :, : : : :, : : : : : :,, : :, : L label : lack :, language : : :, :,,, : :, : : Alderson Reporting Company : : : : : : : long : : look : : : :, : : :, : matters : : :, mean : : : : : : : : : : : :, :,, meaning : looked : looks : : lose :, : : loses : loss : lot : : M mail :,, : : main : : making : : : : March : Martinez : merely : : : :, :, :,, :,,, :, : : : : :,, Mexico : :, : Meyer : :,, mind : :,, minutes : :, :, :, : mistake : :, : modern : : :, : :, moment : :, : money : : :, : months : :,, : morning : : :, move : :, : multiple : :, : :,, : :, : massively : : N matter : : N :, : : : : : means : : : never : new :, nice : nine : nonmutality : : : news : : : : : : : : : : : meant : mentioned normal : normally : number : : : : merits : O : : :, : O : : :, order : : pending :, ordinarily : : : : ordinary : :, : original : percent : perfect : perfectly : perform : :,,, performance : : : :, personally : : : Petitioners : : : : : outside :, pick : place : places : plain : overcome : :, overseas : owed : : : plaintiff : numerous : originally : outset : : : :, : : phrase : Official ­ Subject to Final Review necessarily : : : : : operates : particular : need : : : : : : : : needed : needs : negligence : negligent : : : negligently operation : operative : opportunity : opposition : option : : :, oral : :, : : : : : : : : particularly : parties : : : : : parties' : party : passed : : obliged : obsolete : obviously : : : : offer : Office :, Oh : : okay : : : : :, : P : :,, P page : : :,, :, : : : pages : : : omission : once :, : paid : : : :, Panama :, : :, ones : : operate : parlance : part : : : Alderson Reporting Company :, :, :, : : :, : : :, plaintiff's : plaintiffs : :, please : : : point : : : : : : : : Official ­ Subject to Final Review : :, : : points : : primary : : : polite : position : : : possibility : : possible :,, possibly : Post :,, principals : principles : :, : :, : prior : probably : : problem : : : : :,, problematic : : :,,, :, : : :, :,, : : : :, :, : :,,, : : : :, :, purely : purporting : purpose : procedural : : :,, postal : :,, :,,, Procedure : put : puts : :, Putting : potential : : : : : : : : : : preclusion : provision : : potentially : : practical : : : precluded : precludes : : :, : : : preclusive : : :, predecessor : preface : preliminary : presentation : presented : presents : preserve : presumably : pretty :, prevents : primarily : Q proceedings : : : : qualified : proposed : qualify : protect : : question : : :, : : : : : : : :, : : : :, protections R : quickly : questions : : : :, : :, :, :,, : :, :, : :, : :,,, :,,,, : : : :, : :, : :,, RAMIREZ : relitigation : :, : :, reach : : rely : : : : read :,, recovery : refer : refute : reject : rejected : :, : relief : : R : raise : : : : raised : remaining : remedy :, : provisions : : : :, :, : : : : : : reading : : : : : :, : : : :, : : :, : :, real : realize : really : : : : reason : : :, : reasoning : reasons : : : : : : : : rebuttal : : : recall :, recap : recodification :, : reply :, : reproduced : :, : : res : : :,,, :, : reserve : resolve : : : : resolved : : resolving : respect : : : : : : : : : respondeat :, : : Respondent : : : : : : : : recodified : Respondent's recognized : : : recommend : : : : : : : : Respondents : : : response : : : : responses : : responsible : restatement : restore : result :,, : : : : : : : Reorganization resulting : Alderson Reporting Company results : return : reverse : review : : : : :, :, : reviewed :, revive : rid : right : : : : :,, : : : : :, : : : :, : :,, : rights : rise : rising : ROBERTS : :,, : : : : :,, :, : : : ROMAN : :, : : rule :, : : :, :,,, rules : : : :, : : : :, :, : S S : : save : : saved : saw : saying : : : : : Official ­ Subject to Final Review set : : sorts : :,, :,,, Sotomayor : :,, : : : :, : : :, Sotomayor's subject : : : : : :, : submitted : : substantive : : sovereign : : : : : : :, Substantively : speaking : special : : substitution : :, substitutions :, : specialized : specific : specifically : : : :, : : says :, :, : : : :,, : :,, : :, : : : : : :,, :, : :, : scheme : second : : : : : : : section : : : shared : shed : shift : shortly : shown : shows : side : : : significant : similar : : Simmons : : simply : : : simultaneously :, : : :, singular : :,, situation : : :, : : six : : :,,,, Sixth :, :, : :, : : : : : :, : Smith :, slicing : : : sued : : : spelled : square : squarely : stage : State : : states :, : : : : : : :, : : :, : :, : suddenly : sue : : : : :, sue­and­be­su... :, : : :, : : : :, : : : : : : suffered : sufficient : suggest : : suggested : suing :, : : :, suit : : :,, : : : : suits : : : :, superfluous :, : : superior : see :, seek : : seeking : : sense : : : :, : : sensible : : : : : : : statutes : statute :, :,, :,,, :, : :,,, : :, statutory : :,,, :,,, step : : : :, stepping : : : : solely : Solicitor : somebody : strict : : straightforward sensibly : sent : : somewhat : : separate : :, : :,, service : : sorry : :, : : sort : : strictly : strong : : suable : :,, :, Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review :, : : :, : thing : : :, things : : :, think : : : :, : :, : : : torts : : : unambiguously voluntarily :, : understand : : : : : : voluntary : : W understanding waived : Suppose : supposed : : Supreme :, sweeping : T T :, table : : take : : :, : :, : : : : : : : : taken : talk :, talked : talking : : :, : : talks : technical :, telling : ten : term : : : :, :, terms : : :, : : : :, : text : : : :, textual : : Thank : :,, : theory : : : : : : : thin : : transmitting : : true : : : waiver :, waiving : : : : : : : understood : unique : WALTER : want : :, : : : : : wanted : : : : : : : :, : : :, : : tried : : United :, tries : : trigger : triggered : triggers : : :, : totally : :,,, Towing : transmission :, :, : : : :,, : :, : :,, :,,, : : :, : :,, :, :, :,, : : :, : : : :, : :, : :, : :, :,, v : : : :, : : : :,, : :, Tucker :, Vergonis : : :, : :,, : :, :, : We'll : : :, we're :, : :, : :, : : : : : : : :, : : : : : USC : ward : use :, uses : : wash : Tuesday : turn : turns : twice : thought : : : three : :, : : : : : : wasn't : way : :, :, : :, : : : : :, : : : : : : : : : : : : : : try : : trying : Washington : :, :, : : : : two : :, V threshold : tie : time : : : : : times :,, : :, today : : : : :, :, top : tort : : :,, : : : : : : : : : :, type : typically : U U.S.C : : umbrella : version :, : vicariously we've :, : : weren't : Westfall : : :,, : : victims : : :,, view : viewed :, willing : violation : violations : win : : : Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review wind : word : : : : : words : : : work : worry : worth : wouldn't : : a :, : : : : : :, : : : : : : : :, : : : : : : : : wrong : : : :, : :, : :, yeah : : x :, X Y : :, : : : (b) : : : : : : : a : : : : : :, : :, (a) : : : years : : : : : Z : : : : a : : : : :, : : : a : (a) : : (b) : :,, : : a : ­ : : (a) :, : : : : : (a)'s : : (b) : : : : : (b)() : :, (b)() : (b)() : :, :,, :, : : : : : : : : : :,, : : : :,,, : :, : : :, :, : :, : :, Alderson Reporting Company 